== Local Self-Reliance ==
:'''''[[AT Sourcebook#Local Self-Reliance|View main article]]'''''

*[http://villageearth.org/pages/sourcebook/appropriate-technology-and-local-self-reliance Direct link to AT Sourcebook Chapter]

*[http://books.google.ca/books?id=QjpWAAAAMAAJ&q=Alternative+Development+Strategies+and+Appropriate+Technology&dq=Alternative+Development+Strategies+and+Appropriate+Technology&ei=JkiUS-bCKIOMlASm78GFDw&cd=1 Alternative Development Strategies and Appropriate Technology] - Science Policy for an Equitable World Order. Diwan, Romesh and Livingston, Dennis. 1933. USA: Pergamon Press Inc, (c) 1979. 0-08-023891-2

*[http://books.google.ca/books?id=JCWMAAAAIAAJ&q=Another+Development:+Approaches+and+Strategies&dq=Another+Development:+Approaches+and+Strategies&ei=Z0mUS-ihKIfulQTlp7X4BA&cd=1 Another Development: Approaches and Strategies]. Nerfin, Marc. 1975. Sweden: Dag Hammarskjold Foundation, (c) 1977. 91-85214-06-X

*[http://books.google.ca/books?id=5L9DHAAACAAJ&dq=Appropriate+Technology+in+Social+Context:+An+Annotated+Bibliography&ei=5EmUS9mwM5-klAT1q-2DAQ&cd=1 Appropriate Technology in Social Context: An Annotated Bibliography]. French, David. 1977. USA: Agency for International Development.

*[http://books.google.ca/books?id=ycMNAAAAQAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=The+Breakdown+of+Nations&ei=Y0qUS9__EJCkkASAwrzTCw&cd=1#v=onepage&q=&f=false The Breakdown of Nations] - The study of economies, military forces, government programs, labor unions, businesses, neightbourhoods, and all other human endeavour. Kohr, Leopold. 1978. USA: E. P. Dutton, (c) 1978. 0-525-47529-X

*[http://books.google.com/books?id=yq5PAAAAMAAJ&q=A+Landscape+for+Humans+-+A+case+study+of+the+potentials+for+ecologically+guided+development+in+an+uplands+region.&dq=A+Landscape+for+Humans+-+A+case+study+of+the+potentials+for+ecologically+guided+development+in+an+uplands+region.&cd=1 A Landscape for Humans] - A case study of the potentials for ecologically guided development in an uplands region. van Dresser, Peter. 1972. USA: The Lighting Tree, (c) 1972. 0-89016-005-8

*[http://books.google.com/books?id=oX-6AAAAIAAJ&dq=Learning+from+China+-+A+Report+on+Agriculture+and+the+Chinese+People's+Communes&cd=1 Learning from China- A Report on Agriculture and the Chinese People's Communes]. FAO Study Mission. 1977. Italy&nbsp;: Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, (c) 1977. 92-8521009-0.
----
<span id="Local Responses to Global Problems: A Key to Meeting Basic Human Needs"></span> 
* [[AT Sourcebook/Local Self-Reliance/Local Responses to Global Problems: A Key to Meeting Basic Human Needs|Local Responses to Global Problems: A Key to Meeting Basic Human Needs]]
{{:AT Sourcebook/Local Self-Reliance/Local Responses to Global Problems: A Key to Meeting Basic Human Needs|Local Responses to Global Problems: A Key to Meeting Basic Human Needs}}
----
*[http://books.google.com/books?id=eOavOQrxcqYC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Rural+Small-Scale+Industry+in+the+People's+Republic+of+China&cd=1#v=onepage&q=&f=false Rural Small-Scale Industry in the People's Republic of China.] Perkins, Dwight, et al. 1977. Berkeley&nbsp;: Universit of California Press, (c) 1977. 0-0520-03284.

*[http://books.google.ca/books?id=vLXxNAAACAAJ&dq=rural+University+-+Learning+about+education+and+development&cd=1 Rural University - Learning about education and development.] Arbab, Farzam. 1984. Canada: International Development Research Centre, (c) 1984. 0-88936-427-3

*[http://books.google.com/books?id=bDBrQgAACAAJ&dq=Small+Scale+Cement+Plants.&cd=1 Small Scale Cement Plants.] Sigurdson, Jon. 1977. London&nbsp;: Intermediate Technology Publications Ltd., (c) 1977. 0-903031-46-9.
----
<span id="Soft Technologies, Hard Choices|Soft Technologies, Hard Choices"></span>
* [[AT Sourcebook/Local Self-Reliance/Soft Technologies, Hard Choices|Soft Technologies, Hard Choices]]
{{:AT Sourcebook/Local Self-Reliance/Soft Technologies, Hard Choices|Soft Technologies, Hard Choices}}
----
*[http://books.google.com/books?id=2AiFAAAAIAAJ&q=Technologies+for+Basic+Needs&dq=Technologies+for+Basic+Needs&cd=1 Technologies for Basic Needs].Singer, Hans. 1977. Geneva, Switzerland: International Labour Organisation, (c) 1977. 92-2-101774-5

*[http://books.google.com/books?id=KyuHQgAACAAJ&dq=Technology+for+Ujamaa+Village+Development+in+Tanzania&cd=1 Technology for Ujamaa Village Development in Tanzania]. Vail, David J.. 1975. Syracuse, U.S.A.:Maxwell School of Cititizenship and Public Affairs, (c) 1975. 74-25876

*[http://md1.csa.com/partners/viewrecord.php?requester=gs&collection=TRD&recid=20070650324167MT&q=towards+village+industry+a+strategy+for+development&uid=788391348&setcookie=yes Towards Village Industry - A Strategy for Development]. Berg, Liv; Nimpuno, Krisno;van Zwanenberg, Roger. 1978. United Kingdom: Intermidiate Technology Publications Ltd., (c) 1978. 0-903031-52-3

[[Category: International development]]


{{DEFAULTSORT:{{SUBPAGENAME}}}} 
[[Category:AT Sourcebook subpages]]