The following is a short example of the heading structure for a literature review that we went over in class.  Remember in your literature review to not editorialize or make design decisions.  Include only referenced information.  For help with making citations on Appropedia, please see [[Help:Footnotes]]. 

==Literature Review==
This is a review of the available literature pertinent to the a specific project.

===Composting basics===
Paragraph on the basics. <ref>This is an example of footnotes.</ref>

===Composting concerns===
Short paragraph on the concerns.<ref>Another example of footnotes.</ref>

===Types of composting===
Short introduction to types of composting.  <ref name=Example>This is an example of a named reference. You can use these named references to repeat citation content throughout the document.</ref>

====Type 1====
Type 1 composting is a system that utilizes.....  Make sure to include description <ref>This is a third example of a plain footnote.</ref>, advantages and disadvantages, and/or have a comparison matrix. 

====Type 2====
Type 2 composting is a system that utilizes.....  Make sure to include description, advantages and disadvantages, and/or have a comparison matrix. <ref name=Example/>

====Type 3====
Type 3 composting is a system that utilizes.....  Make sure to include description, advantages and disadvantages, and/or have a comparison matrix.

===Designing interpretive materials===
According to ______ interpretive materials for composting should include....

==References==
{{Reflist}}

[[Category:Practivistas_Dominicana_Program]]