{{Practivistas Dominicana header}}
{{TOCright}}

==What to bring==
Here is an incomplete list of items to pack for the [[Practivistas Dominicana]] Program.

# reusable water bottle
# travel umbrella, light 
# swimsuit 
# beach towel 
# Work gloves
# Work clothes
# lightweight raincoat
# Waterproof shoes 
# antibacterial tissues 
# sunscreen 
# cotton socks 
# comfortable clothes for heat 
# very comfortable walking shoes 
# formal summer outfit (for formal occasions)
# sunglasses
# hat for the sun
# backpack 
# moneybelt (optional - serves to bring some money and save things for personal use) 
# sandals (optional) 
# pocket money ($300 USD)  [ATM card is safer] 
# a small gift for your family (e.g. something from Humboldt) 
# a dictionary (English / Spanish etc.) 
# pens, pencil, eraser, notebook 
# a calculator
# a shirt that read: "Humboldt State University” (optional)
# Memory Stick for use with computer. 
# Any small equipment you would like to use/donate (e.g. hammer, multimeter, screwdriver, etc.)
# Head lamp or flashlight 
# Container to store food for lunch in. 

===Optional: At Your Own Risk=== 
# Camera 
# Laptop Computer (This will help a lot with assignments.  The school facilities have wifi, but no computers.  Alternatively you can use cybercafes.) 
# Music player 
# Musical instruments

===Additional notes=== 
# In Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic there are well stocked drug stores, but it is recommended to bring creams, sunscreen (very expensive in Santo Domingo), and deodorant of your choice.
# Many of items listed above can be found in Santo Domingo (and finding them there can be a fun way to get to know the city).

==Money==
The exchange rate as of September 23rd, 2014 is about 43.6 Dominican Pesos (DOP) per dollar (USD).  See http://www.google.com/search?q=USD+in+DOP for more current information.

[[Category:Practivistas Dominicana Program]]