

{{TOCright}}

== Introduction ==
Before introducing the project I have chosen to put my efforts towards, I first need to introduce a larger project that will take my smaller project upon it's completion and introduce it--among additional projects--to others. The larger project I am speaking of is the [http://www.thewaterpod.org/news.html| Waterpod™ Project]--a self-sufficient habitat on a reborn industrial barge, but their website spells it all out much eloquenter than I can. The project I will be working on is some sort of portable bicycle-powered electricity generator stand. Bicycle-powered generators convert the mechanical energy in the pedaling of pedals into electricity using magnets. The magnets are part of what is called a brushed DC electric motor{{w|brushed DC electric motor}} (also called a permanent magnet generator), which basically works by spinning a bipolar magnet surrounded by another bipolar magnet. This spinning creates direct current{{w|direct current}}, which is able to power some appliances; however, alternating current{{w|alternating current}} is more commonly used in everyday appliances.  To convert the DC from the generator into AC, an [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inverter_(electrical) inverter] is needed. A battery for storing the DC may be used if necessary.  These are all fairly common pedal-power components that I will need to use to build this project.

== Criteria ==
* portability
* meets the requests of the Waterpod people
* cost: scrap metal, eBay, thrift store items, materials found in nature, etc. should be used when possible.
* originality: this project should be it's own project, building off of others' work, but not lose efficiency

== Tentative Timeline ==
== Design ==
== Costs ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! header 1
! header 2
! header 3
|-
| row 1, cell 1
| row 1, cell 2
| row 1, cell 3
|-
| row 2, cell 1
| row 2, cell 2
| row 2, cell 3
|}
See [[Help:Tables]] for more.

== Discussion ==
== Conclusions ==
== Contact details ==
[[User:Tebie]]

[[Category:Projects]]