{{777}}

= About =
This is a fully 3D printable spool holder designed for the Zeni Kinetic spool. It is to be mounted on top of the Delta. Needs only the PLA or other plastic material and a few screws. Made by [[http://www.appropedia.org/User:Ab91 Ab91]]

= Instructions =
{{gallery
|width=250
|height=250
|align = right
|Image:Spool2.jpg| Non-uniform Holes that need to be rimmed.
}}
* Grab the stl file, download and print.
* Using a 3mm drill bit, ream the holes for the screws so that they are clear. See  figure alongside.
* If you wish, drill holes to the top wooden circle of the printer or use sheet metal screws directly. For that, first mark the places of the holes with a sharp pencil or pen and then drill holes about a quarter or half way through the board. No need to go all through.
* Place the holder on top of the printer and screw the #6 x 3/4" screws in.
* Place the spool over the spool holder such that the top shaft-like part of the holder fits snugly to the inside of the spool reel and moves with the spool, not independently. The wider bottom plate on the holder prevents friction between the bottom of the holder and the wooden plank and enables smooth motion.


= Tools =
* 3mm drill bit and printed drill bit holder.

= Bill of Material =
* 4 #6 x 3/4" sheet metal screws : $0.28.
* PLA : ~ $2.

= Files =
* SCAD : [http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:588037 Thingiverse]
* STL : [http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:588037 Thingiverse]
* Watch the video [http://youtu.be/lNq7HbMzv0s here]

= Gallery =
{{gallery
|width=250
|height=250 
|Image:Spool_holder1.jpg|Spool Holder
|Image:Spool1.jpg|Perfectly fit Spool Holder.
|Image:Spool3.jpg|Spool holder closer view.
}}