{{MOST}}

{{Lit}}

'''
==Search Phrases==

*Error Detection + 3D printing
*Error Detection + 3D printing + fdm
*Error Detection + 3D printing + fff
*Error Detection + 3D printing + reprap
*Error Detection + 3D printing + additive manufacturing 
*Error Detection + 3D printing + additive manufacturing + fdm
*Error Detection + 3D printing + additive manufacturing + fff

==Printing==
'''
'''
==="Vision based error detection for 3D printing processes"===
'''
*PlayStation eye cam
*web based: OpenCV, Python and GUI
*Makerbot Replicator 2X
*Three types of Error : 1) detachment  2) missing material flow 3) deformed object 
*height fixed print-head
*only moving x and y axis
*stand size 1x25x10 mm
* Two different test object:  1) block 39x20x5 mm by printting 5 failed   2) triangular block  by printting 6 failed
*using the packages GUI Features, Core Operations, Imaging package and Video Analysis
* algorithm details but they are not enough information to replicate


'''

==="Quality Assurance in Additive Manufacturing Through Mobile Computing"===
'''
*using Makerbot M2 and samsung Galaxy Tab: Android App
* testing only PLA black with Blue and gold print bed
* pause hot end and take image
* Two types of Error:  1) internal (not sticking to the print bed)      2) external  (not sticking to the previous layer)
* Techniques:  1) Image subtraction      2) Image searching
* algorithm details but they are not enough information to replicate

'''

==="Augmented vision and interactive monitoring in 3D printing process"===
'''

*Maker- Bot Replicator 2× printer
*Fused Deposition Modelling technique
* using camera and AR Wuzix glasses
*augmented reality technique based on these steps: (1) image acquisition, (2) calibration, (3) tracking, (4) registration, (5) display. 
*using SURF algorithm
* Not much details about algorithm
* using AR-Viz code based on AR toolkit environment (open source)

'''

==="Initial Work on the Characterization of Additive Manufacturing (3D Printing) Using Software Image Analysis"===
'''
*to detect and characterize defects in 3D printed object
* MakerBot Replicator 2 3D printer
* Five Raspberry Pi camera units
* Data was collected by stopping the printing process and resume
* Image data from eight positions from each of five angles (for a total of 40 images) 
* detect two types of defects:  1) “dry printing” where filament is not applied  2) premature job termination 

'''

==="Characterization of internal geometry / covered surface defects with a visible light sensing system"===
'''
* provide overview
* to assess the internal structures and external surface of complex objects
* using a multicamera visible light 3D scanning system
* formative scanning
* summative scanning
* using C# and the Dot Net Framework

'''

==="Process monitoring of extrusion-based 3D printing via laser scanning"===
'''
*Extrusion based 3D Printing (E3DP) 
*a modular 2D laser triangulation scanner : compact size, achievable accuracy and the possibility of capturing geometrical
3D data.
*a 2MP USB-microscope with an optical magnification of up to 400x 
*a 650 nm laser with a divagation angle of 0,7mrad 
*analyzed feedback signals
* Test with different PLA and ABS color
* measured ‘z-error’
* Not much details about algorithm
* Implementing and comparing the suggested strategies will be addressed in the future

'''

==="Robustness analysis of imaging system for inspection of laser beam melting systems"===
'''
*laser beam melting
*a high-resolution CCD camera
* a tilt and shift lens
*calibration images
* camera is installed in front of the LBM system ( adjust in height, position, and distance from door)
* to detect elevated region 
*be able rating of surface quality
*normalized correlation-based template matching ( invariant brightness)


'''
==="Improving process stability of laser beam melting systems"===
'''
*EOSINT M270 laser beam melting
*a high-resolution CCD camera
* camera is installed in front of the LBM system ( adjust in height and distance from the machine window)
* warping the layer images to an orthographic view
* LBM machine's laser (two orthogonally positioned LED line lights)
* acceleration sensor system
* segment elevated regions
* proximity sensor
*notify via email or SMS

'''
==="High resolution imaging for inspection of laser beam melting systems"===
'''
*EOSINT M270 laser beam melting
*a high-resolution CCD camera
* a tilt and shift lens
*to detect topological flaws and to inspect the surface quality of built layer
*able to inspect the process result on a microscopic scale
*a high resolution imaging system
*calibration images
* camera is installed in front of the LBM system ( adjust in height and distance from the machine window)
* Two orthogonally positioned LED line lights
* matt reflector
* using OpenCV



'''

==="Error detection in laser beam melting systems by high resolution imaging"===
'''
*EOSINT M270 laser beam melting
* overview of typical process errors
* a catalog of measures to reduce process breakdown
* a monochrome CCD camera system
* a tilt and shift lens



'''

==="human error detection "===
'''
*LulzBot mini 3D printer
* Raspberry Pi camera
* a camera is in front of printer
* add a camera to Octoprint

==References==
'''
<references/>
# Baumann, Felix, and Dieter Roller. "Vision based error detection for 3D printing processes." MATEC Web of Conferences. Vol. 59. EDP Sciences, 2016.
# Hurd, Sam, Carmen Camp, and Jules White. "Quality Assurance in Additive Manufacturing Through Mobile Computing." International Conference on Mobile Computing, Applications, and Services. Springer International Publishing, 2015.
# Ceruti, Alessandro, Alfredo Liverani, and Tiziano Bombardi. "Augmented vision and interactive monitoring in 3D printing process." International Journal on Interactive Design and Manufacturing (IJIDeM) (2016): 1-11.
# Straub, Jeremy. "Initial Work on the Characterization of Additive Manufacturing (3D Printing) Using Software Image Analysis." Machines 3.2 (2015): 55-71.
# Straub, Jeremy. "Characterization of internal geometry/overed surface defects with a visible light sensing system." SPIE Commercial+ Scientific Sensing and Imaging. International Society for Optics and Photonics, 2016.
# Faes, Matthias, et al. "Process monitoring of extrusion based 3D printing via laser scanning." PMI 2014 Conference Proceedings. Vol. 6. 2014.
# zur Jacobsmühlen, Joschka, et al. "Robustness analysis of imaging system for inspection of laser beam melting systems." Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE Emerging Technology and Factory Automation (ETFA). IEEE, 2014.
# Kleszczynski, Stefan, et al. "Improving process stability of laser beam melting systems." Proceedings of the Frauenhofer Direct Digital Manufacturing Conference. 2014.
# zur Jacobsmühlen, Joschka, et al. "High resolution imaging for inspection of laser beam melting systems." 2013 IEEE International Instrumentation and Measurement Technology Conference (I2MTC). IEEE, 2013.
# Kleszczynski, Stefan, et al. "Error detection in laser beam melting systems by high resolution imaging." Proceedings of the Solid Freeform Fabrication Symposium. 2012.
# http://www.kupoos.com/video/q7oqOPzCHYE/adding-a-raspberry-pi-case-and-a-camera-to-your-lulzbot-mini/