{{MOST}}
{{Lit}}

=Articles and Papers about 3D Printing Safety=
Please add links to papers and articles related to safety when 3D printing:

==Popular Press ==
* Merlo, D. F., Ing, D., & Mazzoni, S. Gas evolution during FDM 3D printing and health impact. http://www.3dsafety.org/3dsafety/download/mf2015_eng.pdf

* http://3dprinthq.com/desktop-3d-printer-safety/

==Peer reviewed ==
*  Stephens, B., Azimi, P., El Orch, Z., & Ramos, T. (2013). Ultrafine particle emissions from desktop 3D printers. Atmospheric Environment, 79, 334-339. [http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1352231013005086]
* Afshar-Mohajer, N., Wu, C. Y., Ladun, T., Rajon, D. A., & Huang, Y. (2015). Characterization of particulate matters and total VOC emissions from a binder jetting 3D printer. Building and Environment, 93, 293-301. [http://www.researchgate.net/profile/Nima_Afshar-Mohajer/publication/280265184_Characterization_of_Particulate_Matters_and_Total_VOC_Emissions_from_a_Binder_Jetting_3D_Printer/links/55b825d908aec0e5f4397e99.pdf]
* Cheves, S. (2014). A pilot study to evaluate VOCs outgassed in polymer filaments used in 3D printing.[http://www.researchgate.net/profile/Shari_Cheves/publication/282219417_A_pilot_study_to_evaluate_VOCs_outgassed_in_polymer_filaments_used_in_3D_printing/links/56085af808ae8e08c094619e.pdf]
* Oskui, S. M., Diamante, G., Liao, C., Shi, W., Gan, J., Schlenk, D., & Grover, W. H. (2015). Assessing and Reducing the Toxicity of 3D-Printed Parts.Environmental Science & Technology Letters.[http://pubs.acs.org/doi/full/10.1021/acs.estlett.5b00249]
* Zhou, Y., Kong, X., Chen, A., & Cao, S. (2015). Investigation of Ultraﬁne Particle Emissions of Desktop 3D Printers in the Clean Room. Procedia Engineering, 121, 506-512. [http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877705815028271]
* Kim, Y., Yoon, C., Ham, S., Park, J., Kim, S., Kwon, O., & Tsai, P. J. (2015). Emissions of Nanoparticles and Gaseous Material from 3D printer Operation.Environmental Science & Technology.[http://pubs.acs.org/doi/full/10.1021/acs.est.5b02805]