'''NOTICE''': This group is inactive. If you'd like to help restart it, you can [[User talk:Chriswaterguy|offer to help]]. Or see [http://thehughpage.com/Geek_stuff_in_Australia Geek stuff in Australia] for other stimulating activities. 

'''Thursday 17 May''': We are joining the [Beers Without Borders] people at the Edinburgh Castle Hotel, 6-8pm. That's 294 Pitt St, Sydney (corner of Bathurst St). 



==General info for future events - '''to be confirmed'''==
Dinner and discussion at a very reasonably priced restaurant in Sydney. 

'''Purpose''': to meet with other people who are interested in talking about political, social, economic issues etc. 

'''Time''': 3rd Thursday of every month, generally starting about 6:30.  

'''Venue''': a cafe or restaurant in Glebe, Sydney - probably the Fair Trade Coffee Company in Glebe.

'''Topics:'''
The emphasis is on conversation. There is no formal structure and speeches are not planned (though if there's an interesting speaker for a part of the evening, that might be considered). We might try to get everyone into one conversation occasionally (depending on the size of the group) but nothing is compulsory. 

'''Inspiration''': Similar to Beers Without Borders organised by [http://plus20.wordpress.com/ Plus 20], but in a restaurant. Similar to the earlier meetings of the [http://www.sydneyshove.org/ Sydney Shove]. (The Sydney Shove is much more structured now, which is fine, just different, just different.)

==See also==
*[[3rd Thursday Dinner (Sydney)/Past meeting details|Past meeting details]]
*[http://thehughpage.com/Geek_stuff_in_Australia Geek stuff in Australia]

[[Category:Events]]
[[Category:Networking]]
[[Category:Sydney]]