[[Category: Rob Andrews Thesis]]
{{QASpage}}
[[category:Queens Applied Sustainability Group Lab Protocols]]

=Introduction=

NASA maintains programs which continuously monitor atmospheric parameters using remote sensing satellites. A summary of the NASA Aerosol programs can be found [https://eosweb.larc.nasa.gov/aerosols here]. There are two instruments which are used, [http://terra.nasa.gov/About/MISR/index.php MISR] (Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer) and [http://terra.nasa.gov/About/MODIS/index.php MODIS] (Moderate-resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer). MODIS provides a wide band, low resolution spectroscopic view of the earth's surface and can "see" the entire planet every 1-2 days. MISR has a higher resolution, and "sees" the entire planet less frequently, but at a higher resolution.

=Accessing the data=

There are a variety of "levels" at which data can be retrieved. Level 1 corresponds to raw, calibrated instrument data. Level 2 is data which has been derived from level 1 data, and consists of cloud and aerosol optical depth information. Level 3 corresponds to global concatenated datasets, showing cloud/aerosol distribution over the planet surface.

==Access portals==
===[http://eosweb.larc.nasa.gov/ Atmospheric Science Data Center (ASDC)]===
ASDC coordinates the collection, processing, and distribution of NASA Earth Science data and is the entry point for access to all earth science datasets
===[http://l0dup05.larc.nasa.gov/sciflo/amapsLangley/ Aerosol Measurement and Processing Sytem (AMAPS)]===
AMAPS provides convenient tools which provide access to aerosol data from MODIS and MISR. It provides a tool which allows a user to specify a specific location on the planet by latitude and longitude, and will provide all MISR  between a specified time interval which cover this area. There are two methods to specify the location , either through uploading a text file, [http://l0dup05.larc.nasa.gov/sciflo/cgi-bin/submit_sciflo.cgi?scifloStr=http://l0dup05.larc.nasa.gov/sciflo/web/flows/site/amaps-langley/MatchupSitesToMisr.sf.xml&reset=hard&basicTemplate=true URL version] (useful for batch operation) or through [http://l0dup05.larc.nasa.gov/sciflo/cgi-bin/submit_sciflo.cgi?scifloStr=http://l0dup05.larc.nasa.gov/sciflo/web/flows/site/amaps-langley/MatchupSitesToMisr2.sf.xml&reset=hard&basicTemplate=true browser text input]

===[http://eosweb.larc.nasa.gov/HPDOCS/datapool/ Data pool]===
Provides FTP access to recently produced data, in a .HDF file format. This data must be post processed using supplied [http://eosweb.larc.nasa.gov/PRODOCS/misr/tools/misr_tools.html software]. It appears that to retrieve specific Aerosol data from the .HDF files, a compatible GIS environment (eg.IDL) must be utilized. 

===[http://l0dup05.larc.nasa.gov/MISR/cgi-bin/MISR/main.cgi Data order tool]===
Provides access to all MIDC data, filtered spatially and temporally, in separate .HDF files for the entire measurement campaign. Again, post processing of the .HDF file is required to read individual site Aerosol information.