__TOC__ 

==Abstract==

This article reflects on President Bush and his environmental policies as well as his involvement of African Americans in his cabinet. The AAEA believes that President Bush does an excellent job of passing legislation that helps the environment and that his policies are making a huge impact on environmental issues. Furthermore, it touches on the fact that the traditional environmental organizations do not have any African Americans in any professional positions, even lower level ones. They state that they feel that the environmental movement is segregated and that they have a better chance of supporting President Bush's policies and legislations rather than the major environmental organizations. They feel that President Bush's cabinet has more racial diversity in it than the entire environmentalist movement and they should look to him as a guide. Overall, I see that the AAEA believes that the traditional environmental organizations seemed to be segregated and do not allow African Americans into any important positions in their cause. They see that President Bush has African Americans in these important positions, such as members of his cabinet. They showed a number of examples of how President Bush's legislation his helping the environmental cause and it shows that the AAEA supports his efforts.
-[[User:Suzann.pomraning|Suzann.pomraning]] 10:46, 26 October 2007 (PDT)

==President Bush and his Environmental Policies==

President George W. Bush understands the importance of the environment. He also knows the importance of the economy. AAEA believes that he has demonstrated a balanced approach to addressing the environment and the economy. Specifically, President Bush knows that one of the biggest issues facing energy firms today is regulatory risk such as uncertainty around market design issues and environmental regulation. Traditional environmental groups do not acknowledge this reality because they do not have the awesome daily responsibility of providing energy products and services. President Bush should be given the opportunity to implement his innovative policies, which will reduce uncertainty, efficiently provide the amenities of the American way of life and allow aggressive capitalism while protecting the environment.

We are deeply concerned that, while responsible ecology groups provide valuable information to the public, some environmental extremists are abusing the public with unnecessary scare tactics in the ongoing environmental and energy public policy debates. These tactics are hurting the environment and the economy. We have important clean air, energy, water and other environmental issues that must be balanced with America's mighty economic engine: housing starts, car sales, retail sales, DOW industrial average, employment, national security and more. President Bush has proposed numerous innovative environmental policies that are not generally covered by the press. We will continue to encourage him to implement and publicize his environmental agenda.

Source: [http://www.aaenvironment.com/PresidentBush.htm]:

==President Bush on Diversity Compared to Traditional Environmental Groups==

Where is the Colin Powell, Condoleeza Rice, Rod Paige or Alphonso Jackson in the environmental movement? They do not exist. The environmental movement is segregated, arrogant and secretly proud of their elitism. President Bush's cabinet is much more substantive and diverse than the entire environmental movement and former President Clinton's cabinet in terms of African American participation.

AAEA bellieves the African American community is as American as apple pie and should be appreciated for its distinction just as people crave Chinese, Italian and Greek restaurants. It should not be considered negative just because it has 'African American' in the prefix.

Traditional environmental organizations should call President Bush and Maryland Governor Robert Ehrlich and ask them how to hire Blacks in high-level positions. Traditional environmental organizations do not even hire Blacks in low-level professional positions. No research assistants, no research associates, no project and program directors, no vice presidents -- nothing, except secretaries and receptionists. Simple logic dictates that we have a better chance with President Bush than with most of the traditional, condescending environmental organizations and the foundations supporting their elitism."

Source: [http://www.aaenvironment.com/PresidentBush.htm]

[[Category:African American Environmentalist Association]]