Prominent '''aid critics''' including [[William Easterly]] and [[Dambisa Moyo]] (author of ''[[Dead Aid]]'') make a number of strong criticisms of conventional aid (aka [[official development assistance]]), including:

* Badly managed aid, especially budget supplements, can lead to [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dutch_disease Dutch Disease] as surely as striking oil or mining diamonds.
* A multi-party system is really not the same as a working democracy.
* The international aid system can be kind of revolting.
* Badly managed aid can do great harm.
* It's bizarre that we're taking major policy advice from rock stars.

Moyo states that when she discusses aid, she’s not talking about humanitarian or [[emergency]] aid, "charity-based aid, given to specific organisations and people on the ground, in order to achieve specific things],"<ref>http://www.guardian.co.uk/society/2009/feb/19/dambisa-moyo-dead-aid-africa</ref> or locally-purchased [[food aid]]. She is objecting to is budget support. Her book ought to be titled "Dead Budget Supplements," but that is a much less exciting title. Her argument may be targeted, but that’s not how her book is being read by many in the mass media. By choosing to frame it in broad terms - or allowing it to be framed as such - she’s creating a movement against programs she herself supports, such as the distribution of anti-retrovirals, that really are aid.


Modern foreign aid programs (and to an extent [[welfare]] policies in wealthy nations) are often criticized for being ineffective ([[inappropriate technology|inappropriate solutions]] that end up unused) or even causing harm (creating a handout mentality, putting rich foreign [[aid workers]] in a poor context and causing envy, supporting corrupt authorities).<ref>A summary of some of the criticisms, with an aid workers own responses, is given at [http://www.amazon.com/review/R2DEVDJMYZZT4E/ref=cm_cr_rdp_perm Customer Review of ''The Lords of Poverty: The Power, Prestige, and Corruption of the International Aid Business'' by Graham Hancock] - review by Sithara Batcha, May 29, 2006, Amazon.com</ref> This happens through a mixture of incompetence but with [[Good intentions, disastrous outcomes|good   intentions]], and [[corruption]].

Critics of the aid industry include Kamal Kar (of the no-[[subsidy]] [[Community Led Total Sanitation]] program) and Dipankar Chakraborti (who led in raising awareness of the [[arsenic in groundwater]] problem, both of whom are very critical of subsidies in development. See also the insightful blog by an aid worker on these questions, [http://vasco-pyjama.livejournal.com/tag/aid,aid_work,aid_worker,development Pyjama Samsara (filtered feed)].

== Notes and references ==
{{reflist}}

== See also ==

* [[Subsidies]]


== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:William Easterly]]
* [[Wikipedia:Dambiso Moyo]]


== External links ==
{{add links}}

* [http://aidwatchers.com/ Aid Watch - just asking that aid benefit the poor] - a blog written mainly by William Easterly.

{{attrib bloodandmilk|url=http://bloodandmilk.org/?p=1272 }}

{{stub}}

[[Category:Aid]]
[[Category:Principles of development]]