The [http://www.anhglobal.org/ Alliance for a New Humanity] is a group whose mission is ''"To Connect people who, through personal and social transformation, are committed to creating a just, peaceful, and sustainable world, reflecting the unity of humanity"''<br>

==Who is ANH?==
We are people from all regions of the world and from all walks of life - united by a common vision; to strengthen and sustain an actively compassionate humanity. Our movement is open to anyone who pursues this goal.<br>
:'''''ANH calls upon all people who are tired of passively waiting for things to change.'''''

==Crossroads==
We live in critically insecure times. Perceived and real instability is growing in many critical sectors of life. There is crisis in instability, but also hope. The choice depends on how humanity deals with four trends, each enmeshed and interconnected with the others: war, [[poverty]], environmental degradation and human rights abuses. Each threat increases the severity of the other.<br>
:'''''These problems are all related and so are the solutions.'''''
 
==ANH's Intention==
To create an alliance of people based on the awareness of humanity’s interconnectedness. We believe that if enough people share the value of peace, war can be brought to an end. If enough people shift their awareness toward social justice, human rights, and environmental [[sustainability]], then injustice, oppression, and the destruction of the ecosystem can be stopped. Such a shift is already occurring - now it needs critical mass, which in turn needs organization. The Alliance aims to connect individuals, caring communities and groups at a global level.<br>
:'''''Unity isn't fought for and won. It is realized one person at a time.'''''
[[Category:Sustainability organizations]]