{{Organization
| Organization_logo   = 
| Organization_name   = Alliance for Nuclear Responsbility
| Organization_type   = Environmental 
| founded_date      = 2005
| founders           = Rochelle Becker, David Weisman
| location          = San Luis Obispo, California, USA
| area_served       = All areas subject to nuclear incident consequences from California nuclear energy
| focus             = California Public Utilities Commission, critique of economics of nuclear power
| methods            = Public education, public comment to regulatory agencies, utilities rate request
| homepage          = http://a4nr.org
| partner           =
}}



'''Alliance for Nuclear Responsibility''' is a non-profit public interest organization founded in 2005, and based in San Luis Obispo, California. It is focused on public citizen activism and public participation with regard to the Diablo Canyon Power Plant, which some people also call the [[Diablo Canyon Nuclear Power Plant]].<ref>http://everythingnuclear.org/</ref> The focus of the group is primarily on using leverage at the level of state agencies such as the [[California Public Utilities Commission]]. Concurrent jurisdiction of their concern also includes the [[California Coastal Commission]], which certifies compliance of all action within the coastal zone which thus includes the plant. Their posture is primarily oppositional. Other venues for activism include the [[Nuclear Regulatory Commission]], [[California Energy Commission]], Regional Water Quality Control Board, SLO County, the California legislature, the office of the state attorney general, and the US Congress, of which they are in the 23rd District.<ref>Official website</ref>

Rochelle Becker is a co-founder and the current executive director, and has contended experience on nuclear safety issues for 35 years. According to the Alliance website, she is on a California state review committee analyzing water-related impacts from aging reactors, and has met with NRC Chairman [[Gregory Jaczko]] to discuss the position of the Alliance. She is also active on issues pertaining to the [[San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station]] (SONGS). 

David Weisman is also active with the Alliance, and recently has interviewed widely with respect to the Fukushima aftermath. Mr. Weisman asserts that the Alliance is pro-labor and in support of jobs, and that nuclear power is not economical. The Alliance distinguishes itself in this regard from organizations such as the [[Sierra Club]], which are primarily focused on the environmental impacts of nuclear power.<ref>http://www.nukefree.org/node/181</ref> He recently appeared at a Nuclear Regulatory Commission presentations, in the San Luis Obispo and Santa Barbara counties on June 15 and 16th, respectively.<ref>Santa Barbara County Board of Supervisors Archived Minutes - upgraded citation pending</ref>

== Policy proposals ==

On March 10, 2010, the San Luis Obispo Tribune posted a letter to the editor from Becker stating that "PG&E should immediately follow state requirements to begin 3-D seismic reflection mapping and other advanced seismic techniques that have the full support of the entire California Legislature and Energy Commission".<ref>http://www.sanluisobispo.com/2010/03/09/1060733/viewpoint-how-shaky-is-diablos.html#storylink=misearch</ref><ref>Read more: http://www.sanluisobispo.com/2010/03/09/1060733/viewpoint-how-shaky-is-diablos.html#storylink=misearch#ixzz1RHcFOjOg</ref>


The ANR states an intention "to make sure that the seismic threats at Diablo Canyon and San Onofre nuclear reactors are thoroughly evaluated and independently peer-reviewed". <www.a4nr.org</ref>  In an editorial in the Santa Maria Times, Becker proposed "a state-of–the-art, renewable-energy park using the existing transmission lines" at the site of the Diablo Canyon reactors. <ref>Read more: http://www.santamariatimes.com/news/opinion/editorial/commentary/article_2b38a3fa-9946-11e0-b724-001cc4c002e0.html#ixzz1RHadctSo</ref>

==References==

{{Reflist}}

==See also==

*[[Diablo Canyon earthquake vulnerability]]
* [http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Fukushima_Aftermath:_Diablo_Nuclear_Redux%3F Fukushima_Aftermath:_Diablo_Nuclear_Redux?]
* [[Diablo Canyon Power Plant]]
* [[San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station]]
* [[Diverting indirect subsidies from the nuclear to the photovoltaic industry: Energy and financial returns‎]]

== External links==
*[http://a4nr.org/  Alliance for Nuclear Responsibility website]

{{attrib wikipedia|Alliance for Nuclear Responsibility}}

[[Category:Nuclear power]]
[[Category:Organizations]]