There are '''alternatives to starting an NGO''' - in some cases more valuable and more effective than starting your own NGO. Here are some offered by About.com:
* [http://nonprofit.about.com/od/nonprofitbasics/tp/nonprofitalternatives.htm 1. Seek fiscal sponsorship from an existing NGO ]
* [http://nonprofit.about.com/od/nonprofitbasics/tp/nonprofitalternatives.htm 2. Volunteer for a nonprofit that is doing something similar to what you have in mind. ]
* [http://nonprofit.about.com/od/nonprofitbasics/tp/nonprofitalternatives.htm 3. Start a local chapter of a national non-profit. ]
* [http://nonprofit.about.com/od/nonprofitbasics/tp/nonprofitalternatives.htm 4. Put together an unincorporated association to fulfill your mission without seeking tax-exempt status. ]
* [http://nonprofit.about.com/od/nonprofitbasics/tp/nonprofitalternatives.htm 5. Form or join a giving circle. ]
* [http://nonprofit.about.com/od/nonprofitbasics/tp/nonprofitalternatives.htm 6. Set up a donor-advised fund which makes grants to charitable causes of your choice. ]
* [http://nonprofit.about.com/od/nonprofitbasics/tp/nonprofitalternatives.htm 7. Become a social entrepreneur by forming a for-profit social venture to accomplish your social goals. ]
* [http://nonprofit.about.com/od/nonprofitbasics/tp/nonprofitalternatives.htm 8. Organize support for a cause at an online social networking site. ]

== Advantages ==

Volunteering for an NGO, or getting heavily involved in fundraising, give you the chance to learn the ins and outs of the situation before you try to run something yourself.


{{stub}}


{{attrib bloodandmilk|url=http://bloodandmilk.org/?p=1270 }}

[[Category:Employment]]
[[Category:Fundraising]]
[[Category:NGOs]]
[[Category:Internships and volunteering]]