{{QASpage}}

The following is the list of papers and other sources used in the Materials Science and Engineering: B article:
 [[Analytical Model for the Optical Functions of Indium Gallium Nitride with Application to Thin Film Solar Photovoltaic Cells]]:
----

[1] Y.K. Su, S.J. Chang, L.W. Ji, C.S. Chang, L.W. Wu, W.C. Lai, T.H. Fang, K.T. Lam, Semicond. Sci. Technol.19 (2004) 389.

[2] S. Dalmasso U.B. Damilano, N. Grandjean, J. Massies, M. Leroux, J.L. Reverchon, J.Y. Duboz, Thin Solid Films 380 (2000) 195.

[3] F. Yam, Z. Hassan, Superlattice Microst. 43 (2008) 1.

[4] X. Sun, W.B. Liu, D.S. Jiang, Z.S. Liu, S. Zhang, L.L. Wang, H. Wang, J.J. Zhu, L.H. Duan, Y.T. Wang, D.G. Zhao, S.M. Zhang, H. Yang,  J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 41 (2008) 165108.

[5] L. Hsu, W. Walukiewicz, J. Apply. Phys. 104 (2008) 024507.

[6] X. Chen, K.D. Matthews, D. Hao, W.J. Schaff, L.F. Eastman, Phys. Status Solidi (a). 205 (2008) 1103.

[7] M. Gartner, C. Kruse, M. Modreanu, A. Tausendfreund, C. Roder, D. Hommel, Appl. Surf. Sci. 253 (2006) 254.

[8] R. Goldhahn, J. Scheiner, S. Shokhovets, T. Frey, U. Kohler, D.J. As, K. Lischka, Appl. Phys. Lett. 76 (2000) 291.

[9] J. Wagner, A. Ramakrishnan, D. Behr, H. Obloh, M. Kunzer, K.H. Bachem, Appl. Phys. Lett. 73 (1998) 1715.

[10] A. Gokarna, A. Gauthier-Brun, W. Liu, Y. Androussi, E. Dumont, E. Dogheche, J.H. Teng, S. J. Chua, D. Decoster, Appl. Phys. Lett. 96 (2010) 191909.

[11] C. Wetzel, T. Takeuchi, S. Yamaguchi, H. Katoh, H. Amano, I. Akasaki, Appl. Phys. Lett. 73 (1998) 1994.

[12] P. Schley, R. Goldhahn, A.T. Winzer, G. Gobsch, V. Cimalla, O. Ambacher, Phys. Rev. B. 75 (2007) 205204.

[13] S. Keating, M.G. Urquhart, D.V.P. McLaughlin and J.M. Pearce, Cryst. Growth Des. 11 (2011) 565.

[14] J. Tauc, R. Grigorovichi, A. Vancu, Phys. Status Solidi 15 (1966) 627.

[15] M. Anani, H. Abid, Z. Chama, C. Mathieu, A. Sayede, B. Khelifa, Microelectr J. 38 (2007) 262.

[16] J. Wu, W. Walukiewicz, K. M. Yu, J. W. Ager III, E.E. Haller, H. Lu, W.J. Schaff, Appl. Phys. Lett. 80 (2002) 4741.

[17] C. Caetano, L.K. Teles, M. Marques, A. Dal Pino Jr., L.G. Ferreira, Theoretical Support for the Smaller Band Gap Bowing in Wurtzite InGaN Alloys, AIP Conference Proceedings 893 (2007) 257.

[18] H.G. Tompkins, W.A. McGahan, Spectroscopic Ellipsometry and Reflectometry: A User’s Guide, Wile, New York NY, 1999.

[19] D.E. Aspnes, J.B. Theeten, F. Hottier, Phys. Rev. B. 20 (1979) 3292.

[20] A.S. Ferlauto, G.M. Ferreira, J.M Pearce, C.R. Wronski, R.W. Collins, X. Deng, G. Ganguly, Thin Solid Films 455 (2004) 388.

[21] C. Boney, I. Hernandez, R. Pillai, D. Starikov, A. Bensaoula, M. Henini, M. Syperek, J. Misiewicz,R. Kudrawiec, Growth and Characterization of InGaN for Photovoltaic Devices, 2010 35th IEEE Photovoltaic specialists    Conference (2010) 003316.

[22] E. Matioli, C. Neufeld, M. Iza, S.C. Cruz, A.A. Al-Heji, X. Chen, R.M. Farrell, S. Keller, S. DenBaars, U. Mishra, S. Nakamura, J. Speck, C. Weisbuch, Appl. Phys. Lett. 98 (2011) 021102.

[[category: Queens Applied Sustainability Group Literature Reviews]]
[[category:photovoltaics]]