{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Type II Diabetes,
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia
|Image=Ansiscope.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Diabetic autonomic neuropathy (DNS) is a common complication of diabetes that affects between 40 and 60 percent of patients (DyAnsys, n.d.). It is a silent killer, which if left untreated can kill within 5 years. There is very little diagnosis of this disease in the developing world.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This device is safe, noninvasive, and uses a portable electrocardiogram (ECG) to measure the activity of the autonomic nervous system (ANS) hence the name ANSiscope.  It detects the percentage of autonomic dysfunction.  The initial reading takes approximately one minute to show on the device and each reading is updated after each subsequent heartbeat.  Different stages of diabetic autonomic neuropathy are indicated on the device: healthy, early, late, advanced and most advanced.  The device comes with a battery and a charger, allows for data storage on a USB and can be linked to a printer.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Dyansys, Inc.
*Manufacturer location: San Mateo, California, United States

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
This device is sold in South Africa and clinical trials were conducted in India.

==Funding Source==
This device receives private and commercial funds.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Jawa, Ali, Javed Akram, Ali Jawad, and Rizwan Bokhari. "Diabetic cardiac autonomic neuropathy in well-controlled diabetics within 1 year of diagnosis." Indian J Endocrinol Metab. 15(Suppl1) (2011): S67–S68. Print.

===Internally generated reports===
"Portable Ansiscope." DyAnsys. N.p., n.d. Web. 7 Apr. 2012. Link available [http://www.dyansys.com/ansiscope.php# here].

===Externally generated reports===
Bateman, Chris. (2007, February 1). 'Just micro-size me'--tiny diabetes device to the rescue? The Free Library. (2007). Retrieved April 08, 2012.  Link available [http://www.thefreelibrary.com/'Just%20micro-size%20me'--tiny%20diabetes%20device%20to%20the%20rescue?-a0167881456 here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->