{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa
|Image=Antiretroviral pouch.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Research shows that children in Africa that are born at home are extremely unlikely to receive drugs within 24 hours of birth to prevent the spread of HIV from mother to child.  Because conventional containers cannot store the drug because they destroy the active ingredient, the only way for mothers to administer the antiretroviral drugs to their newborn child is to travel to a clinic immediately after birth. This is often quite difficult and leaves millions of infants at risk of becoming HIV+ during the birthing process.
==Detailed description of the solution==
The Pratt Pouch is a foil pouch lined with plastic that holds a dose of anti-retroviral medication. The pouch resembles a ketchup packet and can effectively store the medication to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV for months. If a mother cannot make it to a hospital to deliver her child, she can simply tear open the packet and distribute the drugs to her newborn.
==Designed by==
*Designed by: Developing World Healthcare Technology Laboratory, Duke University
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location: Developing World Healthcare Technology Laboratory, Duke University

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Field testing is being done in Tanzania.
==Funding Source==
Duke University
==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===

===Other internally generated reports===
Malkin, R. A., & Gamache, C. C. Novel packaging of single infant dose nevirapine to prevent HIV transmission from mother to child in resource-constrained settings. Retrieved from http://dhtlab.pratt.duke.edu/sites/dhtlab.pratt.duke.edu/files/Full paper AHT Final.pdf
===Externally generated reports===
Novel approach tests mother-to-newborn HIV spread prevention. (August 23, 2011) Retrieved from http://www.pratt.duke.edu/news/novel-approach-tests-mother-newborn-hiv-spread-prevention

===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->