{{Template:Are You Ready? An In-depth Guide to Citizen Preparedness}}

* Appendix A: Water Conservation Tips ([http://www.fema.gov/pdf/areyouready/appendix_a.pdf PDF] 33KB)
Indoor Water Conservation Tips

'''General'''
* <div>Never pour water down the drain when there may be another use for it. Use it to water your indoor plants or garden.</div>
* <div>Repair dripping faucets by replacing washers. One drop per second wastes 2, 700 gallons of water per year!</div>
* <div>Check all plumbing for leaks. Have leaks repaired by a plumber.</div>
* <div>Retrofit all household faucets by installing aerators with flow restrictors.</div>
* <div>Install an instant hot water heater on your sink.</div>
* <div>Insulate your water pipes to reduce heat loss and prevent them from breaking.</div>
* <div>Install a water-softening system only when the minerals in the water would damage your pipes. Turn the softener off while on vacation.</div>
* <div>Choose appliances that are more energy and water efficient.</div>

'''Bathroom'''
* <div>Consider purchasing a low-volume toilet that uses less than half the water of older models. Note: In many areas, low-volume units are required by law.</div>
* <div>Install a toilet displacement device to cut down on the amount of water needed to flush. Place a one-gallon plastic jug of water into the tank to displace toilet flow (do not use a brick, it may dissolve and loose pieces may cause damage to the internal parts). Be sure installation does not interfere with the operating parts.</div>
* <div>Replace your showerhead with an ultra-low-flow version.</div>
* <div>Place a bucket in the shower to catch excess water for watering plants.</div>
* <div>Avoid flushing the toilet unnecessarily. Dispose of tissues, insects, and other similar waste in the trash rather than the toilet.</div>
* <div>Avoid taking baths - take short showers - turn on water only to get wet and lather and then again to rinse off.</div>
* <div>Avoid letting the water run while brushing your teeth, washing your face, or shaving.</div>

'''Kitchen'''
* <div>Operate automatic dishwashers only when they are fully loaded. Use the "light wash" feature, if available, to use less water.</div>
* <div>Hand wash dishes by filling two containers - one with soapy water and the other with rinse water containing a small amount of chlorine bleach.</div>
* <div>Clean vegetables in a pan filled with water rather than running water from the tap.</div>
* <div>Start a compost pile as an alternate method of disposing of food waste or simply dispose of food in the garbage. (Kitchen sink disposals require a lot of water to operate properly).</div>
* <div>Store drinking water in the refrigerator. Do not let the tap run while you are waiting for water to cool.</div>
* <div>Avoid wasting water waiting for it to get hot. Capture it for other uses such as plant watering or heat it on the stove or in a microwave.</div>
* <div>Avoid rinsing dishes before placing them in the dishwasher; just remove large particles of food. (Most dishwashers can clean soiled dishes very well, so dishes do not have to be rinsed before washing)</div>
* <div>Avoid using running water to thaw meat or other frozen foods. Defrost food overnight in the refrigerator or use the defrost setting on your microwave oven.</div>

'''Laundry'''
* <div>Operate automatic clothes washers only when they are fully loaded or set the water level for the size of your load.
</div>

Outdoor Water Conservation Tips

'''General'''
* <div>Check your well pump periodically. If the automatic pump turns on and off while water is not being used, you have a leak.</div>
* <div>Plant native and/or drought-tolerant grasses, ground covers, shrubs, and trees. Once established, they do not need water as frequently and usually will survive a dry period without watering. Small plants require less water to become established. Group plants together based on similar water needs.</div>
* <div>Install irrigation devices that are the most water efficient for each use. Micro and drip irrigation and soaker hoses are examples of efficient devices.</div>
* <div>Use mulch to retain moisture in the soil. Mulch also helps control weeds that compete with landscape plants for water.</div>
* <div>Avoid purchasing recreational water toys that require a constant stream of water.</div>
* <div>Avoid installing ornamental water features (such as fountains) unless they use recycled water.</div>

'''Car Washing'''
* <div>Use a shut-off nozzle that can be adjusted down to a fine spray on your hose.</div>
* <div>Use a commercial car wash that recycles water. If you wash your own car, park on the grass so that you will be watering it at the same time.</div>

'''Lawn Care'''
* <div>Avoid over watering your lawn. A heavy rain eliminates the need for watering for up to two weeks. Most of the year, lawns only need one inch of water per week.</div>
* <div>Water in several short sessions rather than one long one, in order for your lawn to better absorb moisture.</div>
* <div>Position sprinklers so water lands on the lawn and shrubs and not on paved areas.</div>
* <div>Avoid sprinklers that spray a fine mist. Mist can evaporate before it reaches the lawn. Check sprinkler systems and timing devices regularly to be sure they operate properly.</div>
* <div>Raise the lawn mower blade to at least three inches or to its highest level. A higher cut encourages grass roots to grow deeper, shades the root system, and holds soil moisture.</div>
* <div>Plant drought-resistant lawn seed.</div>
* <div>Avoid over-fertilizing your lawn. Applying fertilizer increases the need for water. Apply fertilizers that contain slow-release, water-insoluble forms of nitrogen.</div>
* <div>Use a broom or blower instead of a hose to clean leaves and other debris from your driveway or sidewalk.</div>
* <div>Avoid leaving sprinklers or hoses unattended. A garden hose can pour out 600 gallons or more in only a few hours.</div>

'''Pool'''
* <div>Install a new water-saving pool filter. A single back flushing with a traditional filter uses 180 to 250 gallons of water.</div>
* <div>Cover pools and spas to reduce evaporation of water.</div>
[[Category:Are You Ready? An In-depth Guide to Citizen Preparedness]]