{{disagreement}}

This article deals around the assessing of the most suitable utensils for food preparation, storage, and consumption, and using these conclusions for the most suitable local manufacturing of these utsensils. The assing of the most suitable utensils, and the most suitable designs thereof is required to reduce costs, and implement a uniformity for the small (to large)-scale production of the utensils. In addition, it allows to determine the best shape of the drawers for the [[AT dish washer]], as well as the design of the food stores.

==General==
===Local variation of utensils===
Although a single range of identical utensils will need to be created, the set of utensils used will vary depending on the location. This would be, not due to difference in cuisine (which shouldn't be followed at all]]), but rather depending on the type of crops that can be locally grown. In addition, [[Industrialisation of local food|although the cuisine/local dishes will not necessarily be followed]], the locally known methods of preserving food (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Food_preservation ), methods of cooking (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cooking#Methods_of_cooking )... will be followed to ''some'' degree; ie so that local crops can still be used). In practice, it will usually mean that a more ancient local cuisine will be reintegrated,/reusued. This as in older times, global trade was still not available to the common public, meaning that they generally relied on locally cultivatable crops.

===Size and use===
Generally, utensils (especially expensive ones as cooking machines) are most appropriately used by
* preparing only 1 banquet (or at least a very small range of meals) to choose from at a single mealtime
* by using [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canteen_(place) cafetaria]/restaurant-sized appliances where available, and select/create a kitchen/(+separate dining area) that is as large as possible

===Utensils material===
The most commonly used material for the manufacturing of the utensils will be:
* cast iron (ie for saucepans, ...)<ref>[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cookware_and_bakeware Types of cooking utensils and best material thereof]</ref>
* cupper, wood or aluminium (for crockery, ladles, ...)<ref>[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kitchen_utensil Cupper and aluminium as best material for crockery]</ref>
* ceramics (type?)/concrete (ie for the food vases, food storage cells)
* glass (ie for wecking jars; --> of [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mason_jar Mason jar shape], Kilner jar shape, ... ?) Glass is needed to be able to withstand the high temperatures of the wecking process; 121°C for 3 minutes)

Note that nowadays, saucepots are often made by combining several metals. These metals include
ie for a stainless steel pot with cupper as thermal conductivity layer (from top to bottom layer):
* tin
* cupper 
* and stainless steel

and for a stainless steel pot with aluminium as thermal conductivity layer (from top to bottom layer):
* aluminium 
* and stainless steel

This approach does improve the effectiveness of the saucepan, yet is no longer in line with the cradle-to-cradle concept. Hence, it is better to use a saucepot made entirely from [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cast_iron_cookware cast iron]. This does make for a less energy-efficient, and heavier saucepan, yet it is cheaper to make, and more ecological. Also note that cookware is also often made of teflon (non-stick cookware). This material too should not be used since it wears very easily, and is again not in line with the cradle-to-cradle concept.

Note that the layer of tin used with traditional cookpot manufacturing is intented to shield the cupper from direct contact with the food. If the food is acidic, a reaction will otherwise occur. For the same reason, it is advisable to use aluminium whenever possible for the crockery, and only use cupper crockery with non-acidic foods.

===Utensils shape===
The utensils will be changed to the most practical design. This means that ie not a single container will be foreseen of a "bottle neck". Having a well-accessible opening is more convenient for cleaning, and is also beneficial to the user's health as improper cleaning can result in gastrointestinal (and other) problems. In general, the less frills and esthetics/artistics there are on the design, the more straightforward the manufacturing is, the less work and material is required. More work and material will make the utensil more costly, and changes to the basic design for aesthetic reasons may compromise the strength and break-resistance. That said, in some situations, tiny variations may however be done, so as to create a very subtle and interesting pattern on the surface, without significantly increasing the costs and/or other drawbacks. In very specific situations, such a design would allow a particular utensil to blend better to the existing culture, and therefore become more used, which in turn increases production, and thus reduces cost, ...

==Food preperation utensils==
* Hot plates (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electric_cooker )
* Saucepans (useable for steaming, cooking food, cooking water)
* Mixer and/or whisk
* Microwave
* Knives
* ... ?

==Food preservation/storage utensils==
{{Main|Food storage}}
* Mason jar, Kilner jar ?
* Food storage cell earthenware pots

==Food consumption utensils==
A general (simplified) lay-out of utensils seems most suitable ''for the time being''. In this context, chopsticks are best not used, and only integrated as a alternative to forks, after the local manufacturing of the main utensils has been set up properly. The use of fork, knife and spoon would become the main utensils, as they are the most useful (the also have a clear distinction/tool for the food cutting and the food grasping). In addition, they are also already well accepted in most parts of the world, are reusable and the easiest to use. Metal chopsticks do exist (which are reusable) and should become the alternative to forks.

==See also==
* [[Industrialisation of local food]]
* [[Agriculture manual]]
* [[Appropriate nutrition manual]]
* [[Heating water]]

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
* [http://canning.wikia.com/wiki/Equipment Canning wiki]
* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Food_storage Wikipedia article on food storage]
* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Food_preservation Wikipedia article on food preservation]
* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Home_canning Wikipedia article on home canning]
* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_food_preparation_utensils Wikipedia article on food preperation utensils]
* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eating_utensil Wikipedia article on eating utensils]
* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kitchenware Wikipedia article on kitchenware]

[[Category:Food production]]
[[Category:Food storage]]
[[Category:Food consumption]]
[[Category:Manufacturing]]