This pages lists individuals who have invented [[appropriate technologies]] or contributed to their use. 

See the '''[[Wikipedia:Category:Appropriate technology advocates|Appropriate technology advocates category]]''' on Wikipedia for individuals with Wikipedia articles about them; others are listed below.

*Kamal Kar, development consultant developed [[Community-led total sanitation]]. 
*Dr. Moses Kizza Musaazi at Uganda's Makerere University Department of Technology, developed the [[papyrus sanitary pad]]{{w|papyrus sanitary pad}} or Makapad. He also advocates other forms of [[appropriate technology|appropriate]] and [[sustainable technology]], including a [[waste-to-energy]]{{w|waste-to-energy}} project.<ref>[http://allafrica.com/stories/200610230947.html Uganda: Makerere University Plots Garbage Power], East African Business Week (Kampala), October 23, 2006</ref>
*Dr. Kwame Oppong-Anane of Accra, Ghana. Has successfully developed and transferred [[appropriate technology]] to improve the welfare of women in [[rural communities]] in Northern Ghana, and trained and encouraged resource [[poor]] farmers to take up livestock rearing for poverty alleviation and income generation. Dr. Oppong-Anane's approach to agricultural development has helped to empowered women and had a positive environmental impact. <ref>[http://www.ccnmatthews.com/news/releases/show.jsp?action=showRelease&searchText=false&showText=all&actionFor=616953 Agricultural Institute of Canada to Honour Outstanding Individuals] OCTOBER 17, 2006</ref> 

==See also==
*[[:Category:Organizations]]

==Footnotes and references==
<references/>

[[Category:Appropriate technology]]
[[Category:People]]