{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, South America
|Image=ADAPT.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) is the leading cause of maternal mortality in the world, especially in resource-poor areas. Of the over 14 million cases of PPH every year, about 125,000 end in death. Postpartum hemorrhage is defined as a loss of greater than 500 mL of blood in a 24-hour period. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
This device is a balloon that is processed in the same way as a condom and functions similarly to the condom tamponade but has increased safety features. The device is attached to an external pump which inflates the device. The device is inserted in to the uterus as a tamponade and applies continuous, even pressure inside the uterus in order to normalize the mother's blood pressure and prevent postpartum hemorrhage.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Johns Hopkins University Postpartum Hemorrhage Team and Jhpiego Corporation, an international, non-profit health organization affiliated with Johns Hopkins.  Link available [ http://www.jhpiego.org/ here].
*Manufacturer location:  This device is manufactured in the United States.

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
This device is currently undergoing animal trials.

==Funding Source==
This project received academic funding from Johns Hopkins University.

==References==
===Other internally generated reports===
"ADAPT | Dell Social Innovation Challenge." Dell Social Innovation Challenge. N.p., n.d. Web. 2 Jan. 2013. Link available [http://www.dellchallenge.org/projects/adapt here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->