{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality, 
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Respiratory failure occurs when the body is unable to utilize sufficient enough oxygen to meet the body’s demands. This can be due to infections and accounts for about 4.9 million infant deaths annually in developing countries. Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) devices are efficient in treatment but common models are too expensive to be used in low-resource health facilities. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Baby Bubbler is a continuous positive airway pressure device that inflates the infant’s lungs and increases oxygenation while they are healing from a respiratory infection. This CPAP device is about $400 compared to common $6000 devices. The bubbler comes with a patient interface, CPAP generator, and flow generator that provides ambient air  to the infant with the option of adding supplemental oxygen.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: InfantAir at Rice University
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location: Rice University

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Molowi in 2012
==Funding Source==
Finalist in Saving Lives at Birth Competition
==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===

===Other internally generated reports===
Bubble CPAP System (February 2013). Retrieved November 7, 2013 from [http://rice360.rice.edu/Resources/Documents/CPAP.final.pdf here.]

Ruth, David. Baby Bubbler a breath fresh of air (2010, June 6). Retrieved November 7, 2013 from [http://bioengineering.rice.edu/Content.aspx?id=137 here.]

Rice University. "Rice's Baby Bubbler." Online video clip.
YouTube (2010, June 4). Web. Retrieved November 7, 2013 from [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JBgdH33uVkc here.]

===Externally generated reports===
Bubble CPAP system (2013, November 8). Retrieved November 10, 2013 from [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/bubble-cpap-system here.]
===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->