{{green living improvement}}

== Ways of growing ==
* [[Pots]]
* [[Green walls]] aka [[Vertical gardens]]
* [[Hanging baskets]]
* [[Pipe pots]] (is that the right name?) A vertical [[pipe]], often made from [[PVC]], with smoll holes in the side. Suitable for herbs, or other plants that don't need frequent replanting..

== What to grow ==
This is subjective (grow what you like!) and depends on your local climate, but here are some suggestions.

Grow things that taste great fresh, and/or you can't buy easily, or that you normally don't buy because you it's hard to plan ahead for spontaneous use of herbs or unusual [[salads]]. Being fresh, they can taste great even before the salad dressing.

During cool weather, grow pots of baby [[lettuce]], [[spinach]] and [[rocket]] (all much nicer fresh). Also good are [[nasturtiums]] (for [[flowers]] & [[leaves]]) & [[marigold]] (petals can be used in a salad), [[coriander]] (cilantro), [[parsley]], [[mint]], [[basil]], [[Vietnamese mint]] and various other [[herbs]]. 

If your rocket or spinach become too mature for salads, they can be cooked, e.g. in a pasta sauce.

Other ideas: [[cherry tomatoes]], [[strawberries]].

== See also ==
* [[Lazy gardening]]

== External links ==
* [http://community.livejournal.com/pollanesque/45921.html?view=430177#t430177 Tips: Urban, Community, Container & Windowsill Gardening] - links & ideas. (Pollanesque community discussion on Livejournal.)
* [http://www.smh.com.au/news/environment/selfsufficiency-on-a-balcony/2007/04/23/1177180569548.html?page=fullpage [[Self-sufficiency]] on a balcony] - Jackie French, smh.com.au, April 24, 2007. Detailed suggestions of what to plant, including vines for fruit and vegetables.

{{stub}}

[[Category:Private gardens]]
[[Category:Urban agriculture]]