
The Barcelona Agenda 21 Schools Program (also known as PA21E), is a program that was established for the school systems of Barcelona in order for them to implement sustainability principles in their education curriculum. 

The program was started in 2001 by the City Council of Barcelona, the City Municipal Institute of Education and the Agber Foundation.[[http://www.dubaiaward.dm.gov.ae/wps/portal/DIABP/!ut/p/a1/rZJRT4MwFIV_yx54JL1QoOURdRMWRJQljr6QCoV1kcI24oy_3rLM-CS6aF9ubvPl9NzegxhaI6b4q2z4IDvFX8aeeQVN0rm3CG2gOHMhSikOrSwNr-4t9IQYYqUa-mGD8kry596AUymEMmDTtcIAfuT76iiVEvuDATZY8MmUnRqEGvxivByVet6IShxko05dKSuUC1dQtxau6VeObTqVXZpcEDB5iTGnmNQEQBvNtVH45gTwqzmmEPsMXN8GoUNiLUofNLDIPOzRuQ2RdwYmPOTaJPl6Am7uAKKVTwiNYstaOii7cOppQUz-W9C9WHD508frxcntbscCHaMxDW8DWv8xR33b0m0de4_h-6pu2yJJTJYHs9kH00U-KQ!!/dl5/d5/L2dBISEvZ0FBIS9nQSEh/]]
== Mission ==

The program was started in the effort to educate upcoming new generations on sustainable living so that these future young adults can contribute to the advancement of sustainable cities. 

The slogan that commonly describes the efforts of PA21E is: “''Many small people, in small places, doing small things, can change the world''” (Eduardo Galeano).[[http://www.eukn.eu/e-library/project/bericht/eventDetail/educating-for-sustainability-the-barcelona-school-agenda-21-programme/]
]

== The Program ==

All non-university level schools are participating in the program including all levels of special education schools.
The program gives pupils the experience to create, plan, and execute projects towards sustainable solutions within there community. 
The program’s main focus is to help stimulate and support schools to educate students on undertaking sustainable lifestyles while interacting with others to constitute sustainable cities for the future generations. 
The program is not only focused on the educational understanding factors of sustainability but rather education and action being made towards sustainability.

One of the essential opportunities that the program provides is the opportunity for the educational community to become involved and work together with other communities (enterprises, associations, administrations, etc.) to improve the city within the same framework towards sustainability. 
The participating schools are given the availability to a complete support program throughout the year. The support program also includes telephone, email and fax consultation and information services, a support website, electronic bulletins, training courses, reflection groups, personalized counseling, teaching resources and materials, and participation in networks of schools and other organizations.[[http://www.iclei-europe.org/members/member-in-the-spotlight/archive/barcelona/]]

== Works in PA21E ==

By the 2009-2010 school year there were 326 schools participating in the program. 
A total of 262 projects were carried out in the school years of 2008 and 2009. These projects ranged from focuses on: energy and water saving, waste prevention, paper saving, sustainable mobility, composting, organic gardens, promoting biodiversity, etc. 
The experience of creating and implementing these projects in the communities has resulted in the involvement of not only the thousands of teachers and staff, but also of the thousands of students and their families. These projects have been making a social impact within the communities and have been influencing the growth of involvement of more schools and organizations. [[http://www.dubaiaward.dm.gov.ae/wps/portal/DIABP/!ut/p/a1/rZJRT4MwFIV_yx54JL1QoOURdRMWRJQljr6QCoV1kcI24oy_3rLM-CS6aF9ubvPl9NzegxhaI6b4q2z4IDvFX8aeeQVN0rm3CG2gOHMhSikOrSwNr-4t9IQYYqUa-mGD8kry596AUymEMmDTtcIAfuT76iiVEvuDATZY8MmUnRqEGvxivByVet6IShxko05dKSuUC1dQtxau6VeObTqVXZpcEDB5iTGnmNQEQBvNtVH45gTwqzmmEPsMXN8GoUNiLUofNLDIPOzRuQ2RdwYmPOTaJPl6Am7uAKKVTwiNYstaOii7cOppQUz-W9C9WHD508frxcntbscCHaMxDW8DWv8xR33b0m0de4_h-6pu2yJJTJYHs9kH00U-KQ!!/dl5/d5/L2dBISEvZ0FBIS9nQSEh/]
]


== References ==

*[[http://www.iclei-europe.org/members/member-in-the-spotlight/archive/barcelona/]http://www.iclei-europe.org
[http://www.eukn.eu/e-library/project/bericht/eventDetail/educating-for-sustainability-the-barcelona-school-agenda-21-programme/]http://www.eukn.eu
[http://www.dubaiaward.dm.gov.ae/wps/portal/DIABP/!ut/p/a1/rZJRT4MwFIV_yx54JL1QoOURdRMWRJQljr6QCoV1kcI24oy_3rLM-CS6aF9ubvPl9NzegxhaI6b4q2z4IDvFX8aeeQVN0rm3CG2gOHMhSikOrSwNr-4t9IQYYqUa-mGD8kry596AUymEMmDTtcIAfuT76iiVEvuDATZY8MmUnRqEGvxivByVet6IShxko05dKSuUC1dQtxau6VeObTqVXZpcEDB5iTGnmNQEQBvNtVH45gTwqzmmEPsMXN8GoUNiLUofNLDIPOzRuQ2RdwYmPOTaJPl6Am7uAKKVTwiNYstaOii7cOppQUz-W9C9WHD508frxcntbscCHaMxDW8DWv8xR33b0m0de4_h-6pu2yJJTJYHs9kH00U-KQ!!/dl5/d5/L2dBISEvZ0FBIS9nQSEh/ ]http://www.dubaiaward.dm.gov] 




[[Category:Sustainable organizations in chosen country]]