{{Template:Are You Ready? An In-depth Guide to Citizen Preparedness}}
* Basic Preparedness ([http://www.fema.gov/pdf/areyouready/basic_preparedness.pdf PDF] 1.1MB)

In this part of the guide, you will learn preparedness strategies that are common to all disasters. You plan only once, and are able to apply your plan to all types of hazards.



When you complete Part 1, you will be able to:

* Get informed about hazards and emergencies that may affect you and your family.
* Develop an emergency plan.
* Collect and assemble disaster supplies kit.
* Learn where to seek shelter from all types of hazards.
* Identify the community warning systems and evacuation routes.
* Include in your plan required information from community and school plans.
* Learn what to do for specific hazards. · Practice and maintain your plan.

In This Section

* [http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/getting_informed.shtm Getting Informed]
* <div>[http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/emergency_planning.shtm Emergency Planning and Checklists]</div>
* [http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/assemble_disaster_supplies_kit.shtm Assemble Disaster Supplies Kit]
* [http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/shelter.shtm Shelter]
* <div>[http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/hazard_preparedness.shtm Hazard Specific Preparedness]</div>
* [http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/practicing_maintaining_plan.shtm Practicing and Maintaining Your Plan]

Last Modified: Thursday, 04-Jun-2009 11:38:47 EDT
* [http://www.fema.gov/index.shtm Home]
* [http://www.fema.gov/about/contact/index.shtm Contact Us]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/privacy.shtm Privacy Policy]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/index.shtm Important Notices]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/plugins.shtm Download Plug-ins]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/foia.shtm FOIA]
* [http://www.fema.gov/oer/eeo_data_excel.shtm No FEAR Act Data]
* [http://www.usa.gov/ USA.gov]
* [http://www.dhs.gov/ DHS]

U.S. Department of Homeland Security | Federal Emergency Management Agency
500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472
Disaster Assistance: (800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-7585
[[Category: Are You Ready? An In-depth Guide to Citizen Preparedness]]