{{copyedit|this needs to be [[A:porting|ported]] from the PDF to retain the formatting.}}

==BATTERIES==
As many small-scale methods of [[electricity]] generation are available only intermittently, some  form of [[electricity storage]] or battery is needed if people want to have electricity available at  all times.    There are a wide range of  batteries available, and the aim  of this Technical Brief is to give  an introduction to the  advantages and disadvantages  of the different types of batteries.  The central point is that there is  no such thing as a universal  battery; a single type of battery  cannot cover all applications.  You can find a more in-depth  description of how batteries  work, the terms and definitions  used to specify rechargeable  batteries, and details about  charging battery systems in  Chapter 7 of Rural Lighting,  ITDG Publishing.    Batteries can be sub-divided into  the following types:    Primary cells or dry batteries     standard zinc-carbon     alkaline or heavy duty    Secondary cells or  rechargeable batteries     Lead-acid battery     vented lead-acid     automotive (car)     deep-discharge or traction     stationary     low-antimony solar battery     sealed or valve-regulated    Nickel- Cadmium batteries     vented     sealed    Primary cells - Dry batteries  The familiar flashlight battery is perhaps the most commonly used battery, particularly in the  South. This type of battery comes in standard sizes of AAA, AA, C, and D.    Although the purchase or first cost of dry cells is relatively low, it is one of the least cost- effective electrical power sources in terms of the cost per unit of useful energy delivered.  Furthermore, only a limited energy yield can be obtained before the battery has to be thrown  away. Dry batteries are used in especially large numbers by the [[poor]], as they are  convenient, just about affordable, and generally all that is available. Their high cost makes  them only suitable for powering small appliances that can only be used economically for  short periods or emergencies.             12v 200Ah 12v 200Ah  12v 200Ah 12v 200Ah  12v 200Ah 12v 200Ah  12v 200Ah 12v 200Ah 400Ah, 24V 200Ah, 24V  400Ah, 12V   Cell   It is normal to connect cells in series so their voltage adds up to the required value. For example, 6V can be achieved by connecting in series three 2.0V lead- acid cells or five 1.2V nickel-cadmium cells Battery   A packaged combination of cells is technically known as a battery. In most cases a number of cells packaged in a single container or sleeve, typically three or six 2V lead-acid cells to give a 6 or 12V battery.    Two batt eries in parallel   Series connection If cells or batteries are connected + to (i.e. positive of one cell to negative of the following cell) so that their voltage add to a suitable value for the application, they are said to be series connected. All cells will have the same current passing through them.   Parallel connection If two or more cells or batteries are  connected + to + and to (i.e. positive  of one cell to the positive of another and  similarly for the negative poles) then they  are said to be parallel connected. Two  cells connected in parallel would produce  the same voltage as a single cell, but be  capable of delivering twice the current.  They would also have twice the electrical  storage capacity of a single cell at the  same voltage.    Two batt eries in series Batteries in both series and parallel + + +  + + + +  + - - -   - - - -  -   Figure1: Cell, battery and connection definitions  
Batteries          2 Primary cells are based on an irreversible electrochemical reaction, and consequently  cannot be recharged. Once the chemicals inside the battery are exhausted the battery is  useless and must be disposed of. In recent years primary cell technology has improved  dramatically, and two distinct qualities of cell are usually available in any size: standard zinc- carbon, and alkaline (also called 'heavy duty' or 'long life').    Zinc-carbon cell  The most widely used and cheapest form of primary cell, especially in the South, is the zinc- carbon cell. The voltage of any zinc-carbon cell is 1.3 to 1.5 volts when the chemicals are  fresh. The size of the cell only influences the current (and hence the power) that can be  produced.    Alkaline cells  Alkaline cells are more sophisticated in design than zinc-carbon cells, and have a much  larger electrical capacity. Alkaline cells are also called manganese dioxide cells, or 'heavy  duty'; or 'long life' batteries. Their open voltage is 1.5 volts when the chemicals are fresh.    How it works  As a cell discharges its voltage falls. A fresh zinc-carbon cell may have an open voltage of  1.5V, for example, but towards the end of its useful life the voltage will fall to around 0.8 to  0.9V.    The electrical capacity of a cell is the total quantity of electricity that a cell can deliver. The  potential electrical capacity of fresh cells of the same size and type is the same, but the true  capacity is not fixed, it depends on many factors, such as cell size, cell type, rate of  discharge, temperature, and mode of use. For a given type, the bigger the cell, the higher  the electrical capacity. The electrical capacity of the cell is used up at a much greater rate  the higher the current. Flashlights, for example draw 0.3 to 0.5A from a D cell by 50 per  cent. If used continuously, the situation is even worse; the D cell may deliver only 25 per  cent of its rated capacity.    In order to optimise the use of dry cells, it is a common practice to use them in radios and  cassette players until their voltage falls (most electronic devices need a minimum voltage to  function at all), and then the cells are finished off' in flash-lights, where a battery with low  voltage simply results in a rather dim and yellow light.    Factors affecting useful life  The capacity of dry cells, like most other batteries, increases at higher temperatures. The  capacity is usually given at 20C; above this temperature the capacity is increased, and  below this temperature capacity is decreased, so warming the batteries before use will  result in extra power.     3.9 ohm 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 Service life (hours) Figure 2: Continuous rate of discharge of a typical zinc-carbon C-sized  cell 1.6 1.4 1.2 1.0 0.8 Voltage (V)  2.2 ohm 
Batteries          3 Primary cells are stable in terms of self-discharge. Some of the alkaline 'heavy duty' types  can be kept for several years with no more than a few per cent loss of capacity.    Characteristics of primary cells compared with miniature secondary cells  Type of cell Size of cell No. of  cycles   Nominal  capacity   Useful 1   Energy   Cell cost Unit 2  cost        ah  Wh  US$  US$/kWh  Zn-C  D   1   5.5  2.2  1.0  450.0  Alkaline D   1   16.0  14.0  2.0   140.0  Ni-cad  D   100  4.0  400.0  8.5  21.0     D   200  4.0  800.0  8.5  10.6     D   500  4.0  2000.0 8.5  4.25  1. Useful energy (Wh) has been obtained from typical characteristic curves of dry cells and for a load typical for a  small lighting application (e.g. a flashlight: discharge rate 0.5A two cells in series for a 1.2W/2.5V bulb).  2. The unit cost indicates the cost of the battery per unit of output. A rechargeable battery also needs a charging  source which adds to the cost by a variable amount depending on the type of charger. Obviously the charger will  generally last many more cycles than an individual ni-cad cell. Examples of 100, 200, and 500 cycles for the ni-cad  cells are given.    The cheaper zinc-carbon type deteriorate more quickly, but even so they retain their  capacity better than any other type of portable electrical power source. The self-discharge  rate is adversely affected by high temperature, so store the cells at between 10 and 25C  and at a relative humidity of below 65 per cent.    Cost  The cost of electricity from primary cells varies widely between US$140 and $1300 per  kWh, and is about 700 to 6500 times more expensive than mains electricity taken at $0.2  per kWh. The initial cost of primary cells is low, but the unit cost of electricity from them is  extremely high. Despite this, the use of primary cells remains common, partly because the  cost is spread over a period of time, partly because they are convenient, but mainly  because they are often the only source of power available, particularly in rural areas.    Secondary cells: Rechargeable cells and batteries  There are two main types of secondary cell in general use: lead-acid and nickel-cadmium  (NiCd).    Nickel-cadmium batteries  The main alternative to the lead-acid battery is the nickel-cadmium or 'ni-cad' battery. Like  lead-acid, ni-cad batteries are available either vented or sealed. Vented ni-cad are  designed for applications which require robust energy storage with long operating lifetimes  and minimal maintenance. Sealed and usually small (i.e. sized AAA, AA, (, or D), ni-cad  batteries are used as an economical replacement for dry cells.    The nominal voltage of a ni-cad cell is 1.2 volts, so a nominal 12V ni-cad system needs 10  cells. Ni-cad cells can withstand a greater depth of discharge than lead-acid batteries, and  so generally a smaller capacity can serve a given duty. They also tend to last longer, 10 to  20 years for the larger ones. Ni-cads are less easily damaged by over-discharge or over- charging, and so simpler and cheaper charge control systems can be used to compensate  for their extra unit costs. They are also more tolerant of extreme temperature variation than  lead-acid batteries, and can operate at sub-zero temperatures.    Although ni-cad batteries are robust and reliable, they do have a few shortcomings that can  cause problems. One major problem is that reversing the polarity when recharging a ni-cad  cell usually destroys it completely. This can sometimes happen, not because a cell was  reversed by carelessness when wiring it up for recharging, but when one cell in a battery of  ni-cad cells is weaker than the rest: then the good cells can cause reverse charging of a  weak one in certain circumstances, destroying the weak one completely. This is one reason  
Batteries          4 why it is not a good policy to mix old cells and new ones either for recharging or for actual  use.    Principal characteristics of various batteries  Type   Depth of  discharge   Self-discharge  (capacity per  month)   No. of  cycles   Calendar life  (cell life)   Approx  cost  (&lt;100Ah)   Approx.  cost  (&gt;100Ah)    %  %    years  US$/kWh US$/kWh  Lead acid            Automotive 20   30   300-600 1-3   100-150 80    80     20        Traction  80  5-7   1500  4-6   200-400 200  Stationary 50   3   3000   5-10   300-4000 250    80     1200        Solar  50  1-3   3000  5-10   250-350 200  Low antimony 80   3   1200        Sealed   20   2-6   400-1500 4-8   150-500 200  Ni-cad              Sealed   100 5-30   100-10000 3-5   600-1000 N/A  Unsealed 100 3-5   1000-2000 20   5000 350  Note: the cost in US$/kWh is calculated as follows: price of battery divided by rated capacity.    Another characteristic of ni-cad batteries is a tendency to self-discharge rather more quickly  than lead-acid cells and much more quickly than primary cells. Ni-cad primary cell  substitutes therefore need regular recharging and are less useful for occasionally used  loads than for regularly used ones. They are particularly well suited for small photovoltaic  application where they are being charged with daily sunshine.    Memory effect of ni-cad batteries  The memory effect is the tendency of a battery to adjust 'its electrical properties to a certain  duty cycle to which it has been subjected for an extended period of time. Vented pocket- plate batteries do not develop this effect, but sealed cells, such as the AAA, AA, C, and D  sizes do. To remedy this problem, they need to be 'awakened' by being fully charged and  discharged for three or four cycles before their memory is 'stretched' enough to hold a full  charge.    Costs  The small ni-cad batteries have a higher initial cost than a primary cell, but work out much  less expensive in the long run since they can be recharged and re-used from 100 to 1000  times before they lose their capacity and need to be replaced. Obviously, a suitable power  source is necessary to recharge them, which could be a special low-voltage charger  powered by the mains or a generating set, or by solar photovoltaics. Large nickel-cadmium  batteries can also be financially competitive with large (over 100Ah) lead-acid batteries,  bearing in mind that they can be 100 per cent discharged while a lead-acid battery generally  should be limited to 50 to 70 per cent discharge of its rated capacity.     Lead-acid  The least expensive option for any significant size of electrical battery storage is the lead- acid battery. Lead-acid batteries have a nominal fully charged voltage of 2V per cell, so a  12V battery typically has six cells in series. A lead-acid battery will only withstand a certain  number of charge-discharge cycles, before it fails and needs to be re-placed. The greater  the depth of discharge (that is the more on average that the battery is 'flattened'}, the fewer  cycles it will survive. For example a battery that is discharged regularly by 80 per cent of its  total capacity may last 800 cycles, but if it is discharged by only 20 per cent each time it  may last 6000 cycles. If the battery were discharged at 20 per cent rather than 80 per cent,  the rated capacity will have to be four times larger to deliver the same energy, but will last at  least four times as long. The size of the battery is therefore a compromise between making  it large but too expensive, and small and affordable but too easily discharged and therefore  too short-lived.  
Batteries          5 A lead-acid battery's capacities are usually specified for 25C operating temperature. The  capacity is typically reduced by 1 per cent per 1C going down to 0C, but increases  approximately 1 per cent per 1C, going up from 25C to 40C. The problem is that the life  of the battery decreases with increased temperature so, in a tropical climate, a battery  should be kept whenever possible in a cool and well ventilated room.    As many small-scale methods of electricity generation are available only intermittently, some  form of electricity storage or battery is needed if people want to have electricity available at  all times. Lead-acid batteries can be simply sub-divided into five categories, the first four of  which are vented:      Automotive     Deep-discharge or traction     Stationary     Low-antimony solar battery     Sealed or valve-regulated battery    Automotive batteries  Automotive batteries have a poor capacity for their size and a poor cycle life. A typical  automotive battery will only withstand about 20 deep-discharge cycles before it becomes  completely useless. Car batteries are also easily damaged if left discharged for any length  of time. The cell design in a car battery is optimised to deliver heavy currents, and it is  therefore poorly suited to supplying smaller currents for many hours before being  recharged.    Car batteries are, however, usually the cheapest batteries when compared by rated  capacity; they are often produced locally; and they are widely available and repairable.    Deep discharge or traction batteries  Deep-discharge batteries can tolerate discharge to as much as 80 per cent of their rated  capacity, with a cycle life of from 1000 to 1500 deep cycles. They tend to lose water at a  faster rate than other types of lead-acid battery, and need frequent maintenance. They are  commonly used for electric' vehicles and are often known as traction batteries. Their self- discharge rate is also high. These batteries are relatively expensive, require a lot of  maintenance, and are not often available locally.    Stationary batteries  These batteries are often called stand-alone or standby batteries, and have been designed  to supply power when there is a grid failure. In most applications they are kept fully charged  by the mains supply and are ready to take the load whenever needed. They are extremely  reliable, have a low self-discharge rate, and a long cycle life with shallow cycles, lasting up   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Car battery  Sealed battery %DOD 100 80 60 40 20 0  000 cycles Stationary battery  Solar low-antimony Figure 3: Cycle life verses depth of charge for several types  of lead-acid battery 
Batteries          6 to ten years. These batteries are usually oversized when used for stand-alone applications,  to ensure that they only run with shallow cycles and last a long time.  Low-antimony solar batteries  These batteries are similar to stationary ones, but have been designed for photovoltaic  systems. The self-discharge rate and distilled water consumption are both low. The cycle  ranges from 1200 to 3000 depending on the discharge rates. These batteries are fairly  expensive and available only run with photovoltaic systems suppliers.    Sealed or valve-regulated batteries   The hydrogen produced by these batteries is absorbed by chemicals inside them and they  contain enough electrolyte for their entire life, so they are often called 'maintenance-free'.  Sealed batteries have a short cycle life for deep cycles. They have a low rate of self- discharge and can support a full discharge, but must be recharged as soon as possible to  prevent permanent damage.    Overall, a sealed battery is likely to have a shorter life than a well-maintained unsealed  battery with the same alloy contents, but will obviously last longer than a poorly maintained  unsealed battery.    The main disadvantage of sealed lead-acid batteries is their need for regular recharging to  prevent sulphate build-up. Batteries in storage will need to be recharged about once every  three months, more often in countries with high ambient temperatures where self-discharge  will happen more quickly.      Safety and environmental hazards of lead-acid batteries    Vented Batteries: Care is obviously needed as, part from the battery acid being extremely  corrosive, hydrogen gas is produced, which is highly flammable and potentially explosive  when mixed with air. Thus care should also be taken to avoid naked flames or sparks in the  battery enclosure, especially if the battery is housed in a confined space. Never check the  electrolyte levels with a naked flame such as a kerosene lamp or a candle. For the same  reason, battery storage areas should be well ventilated    Sealed Batteries: These contain the electrolyte in dry from so that no electolyte can be  spilt, and so there is less of a hazard. Even so, care must be taken not to damage the  casing.    Recycling: Both types of batteries should be deposed of safely. Where practical, it is a  good idea to give away lead-acid batteries to local battery manufactures for lead and  plastic-casing recycling.    Ni-cad batteries should be disposed of carefully to avoid cadmium pollution      References and Further Reading     Rural Lighting: A Guide for Development Workers , Jean-Paul Louineau, Modibo  Dicko, Peter Fraenkel, Roy Barlow and Varis Bokalders, ISBN 1 85339 200 6, ITDG  Publishing, 1994.     Batter Charging in Colombia MHPG Mini Hydro Facts     Fuel Cells  by Teodoro Sanchez ITDG Latin America            
Batteries          7   This technical brief was originally written for the Appropriate Technology magazine Volume  21/Number 2 September 1994 ATBrief No 9,    For more information about Appropriate Technology contact:  Research Information Ltd.  222 Maylands Avenue  Hemel Hempstead, Herts.  HP2 7TD  United Kingdom  Tel: +44 (0)20 8328 2470  Fax: +44 (0)1442 259395  E-mail:  info@researchinformation.co.uk   Website:  www.appropriatechnology.com   Website:  http://www.researchinformation.co.uk       

[[Category:Electricity]]
[[Category:Energy storage]]
[[Category:Batteries]]