The following is the text from the early proposal/planning stage of the [[Beacon Food Forest]], then called "Jefferson Park Food Forest". This can serve as an example for others wishing to do similar projects. 

See also: [[Beacon Food Forest presentation]]

==Where to start==

*For the assignment, we can refer to articles in our reader on the decision making process, and the observation/interpretation.
*I suggest that we each write up our strengths and email them around sometime during the next week. I suggest that others may add to someone's list of attributes if someone has overlooked their own. Then, we can finalize them at the meeting and give to instructors later. 
*Have we finalized site?
*For site we focused on:
**What is going on with drainage, spring in lower part
**document existing maintenance (good be interesting contrast to our plans)
**link up to current later phase plans for area
**what is [[wikipedia:Electromagnetic_radiation_and_health#Health_effects_of_electric_power_transmission|effect of ELF from power lines]]
**what are local businesses, schools, neighborhood groups, stakeholders, permie groups, et cetera
**make a map: (topography, sun, relationship to other park elements, transport corridors, paths, et cetera)
**how could we move water to our site, how could we collect water, is there irrigation anywhere close by
**how do we see using this as an educational resource, who in middle school currently is teaching or parenting who has a green thumb, eco-interest, neighborhood interest?

==Questions==
*What is history of land pre-grass? Trees? Vegetation? Culture?
*Microclimates?
*Is farm a food forest? Is p-patch a forest, if not why not?
*vertical gardening areas?
*water oxygenation art feature as seen in Global Gardener
*Green building bed & breakfast? event learning center?
**passive solar, passive refrigeration, green roof, water catchment, water catchment and ormus spiraling vortex art feature.
**Native plant vs ecological debates, example guilds, Cascadia native guilds? Examples of edge invasive guilds and also some for slopes

==Mission statement==
To rejuvenate the land and gather community through collaboration, education, and participation. This project will address vital issues of water, food, land use, and community- building with interactive elements which will enable people to learn how to feed themselves, care for the land and the natural elements, and create a place to gather and nurture community. By its success, it will be a model for other community [[wikipedia:Forest gardening|food forest]] projects.

==Land==
[[wikipedia:Jefferson Park (Seattle)|Jefferson Park]], located in the [[wikipedia:Beacon Hill, Seattle|Beacon Hill]] neighborhood in [[wikipedia:Seattle|Seattle]] has recently seen significant changes as part of the federally-mandated Beacon Reservoir lid project (one reservoir removed, the other lidded for more open park space) [http://www.seattlepi.com/local/333919_reservoirs02.html] and $8 million in Pro Parks Levy projects allowing for significant redevelopment and remodeling. Projects in this park revitalization effort include new walking paths, gardens, and a new gymnasium. ''For more information see the [http://www.seattle.gov/parks/parkspaces/jeffparksiteplan.htm Seattle Parks & Rec Jefferson Park Site Planning] page.''

The proposed JPFF project site is currently well outside of the area of heaviest development for the park. It is located on an undeveloped hillside to the East of 15th AVE South, to the North of South Dakota street, West and down the hill from the [[wikipedia:Beacon Hill, Seattle|Beacon Hill]] Reservoir. (Google [http://bit.ly/Ygpkk street map] + [http://bit.ly/IhmEp satellite view]. ''See other maps at bottom of page as well as the Parks Dept project sites for land use planning maps.'')

Site is sparse in terms of structures, paths, and plant communities. There are hydrology, geology, vectors, bus lines, airplane noise, car traffic on 15th Ave S.  Nearby and above are being-developed soccer fields.  The slope and traffic patterns of the neighborhood do not funnel foot traffic to the site. There is a view to the NW of Downtown Seattle.

Site is currently maintained by [[wikipedia:Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation|Seattle Parks & Recreation]]? Most of hill is turf, with no known yields or benefits aside from some erosion control. Seattle Park's Jefferson Park Nursery located to South. Apparently there are some height restrictions on any trees installed in the area for view purposes from the East.

The stepped grade increases coming up from 15th Ave S, then increases again at 16th Ave South (closed-off Seattle City Light access rode) and then dramatically increases (as in climb on all fours) above another access rode just below the plateau to the East. Site would probably lend itself well to terracing.

==People==
===Community===
Multi-cultural and  a bit of mixed classes: working class and a growing college-educated working class/professional class with an artsy orientation interested in neighborhood projects. Ethnic - Asian first and second generation families; multigenerational households. Latino first and second generation. White - working class, skilled trades, and middle class professionals.  The park also draws people from communities a bit further away from the nearby neighborhood.  For example the cricket fields that Saturday hosted over over 100 people associated with the Samoan Cricket League, for matches.[http://www.seattlepi.com/local/35705_cricket18.shtml]
The lawn bowling field and the golf course also draw people.

===Group project===
Group came together in late April 2009 at the Permaculture Design Course at [http://www.rawvegansource.com Raw Vegan Source] ([http://www.rawvegansource.com/cgi-bin/commerce.cgi?display=action&emptyoverride=yes&template=PDGCommTemplates/RVS/Events.html Raw Vegan Source event link]) ([http://www.permies.com/permaculture-forums/1393_0/events/raw-vegan-source-permaculture-design-course Permaculture Forum link])  taught by Jenny Pell (of [http://www.permaculturenow.com Permaculture Now!]), Marisha Auerbach (also of [http://www.permaculturenow.com Permaculture Now!], [http://wildthymefarm.com Wild Thyme Farm] and [http://herbnwisdom.com Herb'n Wisdom]), and guest instructors Christy Nieto, Kelda Miller ([http://divinearthgp.com Divine Earth Gardening Project]) and Tom Armstrong ([http://www.rawvegansource.com Raw Vegan Source]). 

Members of the Jefferson Park Food Forest project (not a final name) include 
*G (Group rep?, Jefferson Park neighbor and community organizer)
*H (Community organizer)
*N
*J (Gardener) and 
*Daniel Johnson (Community organizer, artist).

==Project focus areas==
===G===
Primary focus: Community Building, Water Catchment. Water in general? 
Also citizen group interviews.
===H===
Primary focus: Educational aspects + Interactive elements
===J===
Primary focus: Food forests + guilds
====Daniel Johnson====
Composting toilet + aesthetics
Also: 3D modeling, Keynote (software like PowerPoint) templates and presentation, nursery, green bed & breakfast, reflexology path, quiet contemplation and sunbathing area

==Features==
===Community Garden===
*Permaculture education and Demonstration
*Children's nest area
*Sound blocking

===Community Gathering Space===
*Celebrations and work parties
*Green roof water collection
*Composting Toilets
*Tool storage
            
===Orchard food forest===
* Berries to Fruit trees to Conifers

===Interactive components===
*Zip line (DLJ) bucket hauler
*Bike powered watering system

===Recreational===
*leave a few gentile slopes open for say a sledding run

==Next meetings==
*24 July 2009
*Class meeting at RVS on Sat, Sun June 2009
*Possibly Weekend of Friday, 22-24 May

==External links==
*[http://www.cityofseattle.net/commnty/Beacon/groups/jpa/ Jefferson Park Alliance], a group of neighborhood advocates for the park
*[http://www.seattle.gov/parks/centers/jeffercc.htm Jefferson Park Community Center]
*[http://www.ci.seattle.wa.us/parks/parkspaces/jefferso.htm Seattle Parks and Recreation: Jefferson Park] (official City page)

===Maps===
*Google [http://bit.ly/Ygpkk street map] + [http://bit.ly/IhmEp satellite view]
*[http://www5.kingcounty.gov/parcelviewer/viewer/kingcounty/viewer.asp?PIN=3679400155 King County Parcel viewer of area]

===Site planning===
*[http://www.seattle.gov/parks/parkspaces/jeffparksiteplan.htm Seattle Parks & Rec Jefferson Park Site Planning]

{{attrib permawiki|Jefferson Park Food Forest}}
{{attrib permawiki|Talk:Jefferson Park Food Forest}}

[[Category:Permaculture sites]]