Switching to a [[vegetarian]] diet/ lifestyle can be challenging. Most people will find it easier to transition gradually. Some people start by eating a few vegetarian meals per week, such as Meatless Mondays. Another approach is to incrementally remove certain meats from one's diet. For example, beginning with red meats and ending with poultry or seafood.

== Diet ==

A vegetarian diet isn't necessarily a healthy one. People whose diets were unbalanced or lacked certain nutrients when they ate animal products should take this opportunity to re-evaluate food and lifestyle choices. A registered dietician or physician may be able to offer advice on dietary changes. 

New vegetarians anecdotally report that they often feel less satisfied after meals than before transitioning. The temptation to fill up on carbohydrates and fats is common among vegetarians. Some experimenting in the kitchen may be needed to relearn how to make fulfilling meals.

Becoming vegetarian is a good time to try rarer varieties of fruits, vegetables and nuts. 

== Cooking ==

Existing recipes can usually be modified to be vegetarian by finding appropriate substitute ingredients. 

== Eating out ==

Many restaurants often have only one or two token vegetarian offerings. These can all too often prove flavorless or nutritionally insufficient. Check for possible substitutions that could be made with ingredients used in other menu items.

Dinner parties and other social events often provide meager vegetarian fare. It can help to prepare your own dish to bring along. A meat barbecue is often the focal point of a cook-out. Alternatives include [[eggplant]], [[zucchini]], and [[portabella mushrooms]].

== Hygiene ==

New vegetarians often experience changes in their bowel movements. Some changes can be attributed to a higher ratio of dietary fiber in their diets. Some people may experience more frequent flatulence due to increased consumption of [[legumes]].

== External links ==

*[http://www.pcrm.org/sites/default/files/pdfs/health/vsk.pdf Vegetarian Starter Kit] - Physicians for Responsible Medicine
*[http://www.wikihow.com/Transition-to-a-Vegetarian-Lifestyle How to Transition to a Vegetarian Lifestyle] - WikiHow
*[http://www.nomeatathlete.com/relax/ The Most Laid-Back Guide to Going Vegetarian You’ll Ever Read] - No Meat Athlete

[[Category:Vegetarianism and veganism]]