This is a '''bibliography for learning about international development''', a selection of books, articles and [[blogs]] that are valuable reading for anyone who wants to understand and practice [[international development]].

This is not exhaustive, but just gives the very basics as a starting point. Books are often good for theory and background, articles for technical information and detail, and blogs for the on the ground perspective and a peek into the industry of development. Theory helps little in getting a sense of how development work gets done. But to do this work well, it is important to understand the background picture of what development is and what its goals are.

==Books==

* [[William Easterly]],  [[The Elusive Quest for Growth]]: Economists’ Adventures and Misadventures in the Tropics. Cambridge: MIT Press.

* Ruth Levine,  [[Millions Saved: Proven Successes in Global Health]].  Washington: Center for Global Development, 2004

* Carol Lancaster,  [[Foreign Aid: Diplomacy, Development, Domestic Politics]].  Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2006.

* [[Amartya Sen]]. [[Development as Freedom]]. New York: Anchor, 2000.

==Articles==

* JR McNeil, “[http://www.historycooperative.org/journals/ht/34.2/mcneill.html The World According to Jared Diamond” ]

* Roger Bate [http://www.aei.org/include/pub_print.asp?pubID=24440 “The Trouble with USAID” ]American Enterprise Institute. May 23, 2006.

* [http://www.usaid.gov/policy/pdabz3221.pdf USAID White paper]

* Brian Atwood, Peter McPherson, and Andrew Natsios, [http://bloodandmilk.org/wp-includes/js/tinymce/plugins/paste/Arrested%20Development,%20http:/www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/64613/j-brian-atwood-m-peter-mcpherson-and-andrew-natsios/arrested-development Arrested Development ]

==Blogs==

* [http://chrisblattman.blogspot.com/ Chris Blattman’s Blog]

* [http://www.oxfam.org/en/policy/from_poverty_to_power From Poverty to Power]

* [http://www.cgdev.org/section/opinions/blogs/ Center for Global Development Blogs]

* [http://psdblog.worldbank.org/psdblog/ World Bank Private Sector Development Blog]

* [http://www.owen.org/blog Owen Barder]

* [http://bottombillion.com/ The Bottom Billion Blog]

* [http://blogs.nyu.edu/fas/dri/aidwatch/ Aid Watch]

== Notes and references ==
{{reflist}}

== See also ==

* [[:Category:Principles of development]]
* [[Official development assistance]]

== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:International development]]

== External links ==
{{add links}}

* [] 

{{attrib bloodandmilk|url=http://bloodandmilk.org/?p=1315 }}

{{stub}}

[[Category:Principles of development]]
[[Category:Books]]