{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa
|Image=Bilibed2.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Sixty percent of all newborns develop some form of jaundice after birth, and about twelve percent of these newborns need to receive immediate treatment for severe jaundice. If left untreated, severe jaundice can cause life-threatening brain damage. Although this condition can be treated with phototherapy, this treatment method is currently too expensive to be used in low-resource health facilities. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
Bilibed is a phototherapy treatment option that is cheap, portable, and can be placed next to the mother for follow-up and feeding. The device uses a 30W bulb that has a 1500-hour lifespan. The bulb emits a blue LED light that diminishes orange skin pigmentation and treats jaundice. In addition to treating jaundice, Bilibed also warms the baby, thus preventing hypothermia. The device is easy to use as it has an automatic thermometer set that cools down the device if the temperature gets too high.
==Designed by==
*Designed by: Breath of Life
*Manufacturer (if different): Medical Technology Transfer Services
*Manufacturer location: Vietnam

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Vietnam
==Funding Source==
East Meets West
==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===

===Other internally generated reports===
Bilibed (2009). Medical Technology Transfer and Services. Retrieved November 7, 2013 from [http://www.mtts-asia.com/en/products/60-bilibed here.]

===Externally generated reports===
Portable LED based warmer and Bilibed (2013, January 11). Retrieved November 7, 2013 from [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/portable-led-based-warmer-and-bilibed here.]

Bilibed (2013). Retrieved November 7, 2013 from [http://mnhtech.org/technology/technologies-in-development/bilibed/ here.]

===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->