{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, South America
|Image=BiliSol Phototherapy System.JPG
|Image Caption=BiliSol Phototherapy System
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Neonatal jaundice occurs when the blood has excessive levels of bilirubin due to the liver not effectively breaking it down, causing the skin and eyes to turn yellow. Preterm babies are more likely to have this condition since their livers are not fully developed. Jaundice affects ⅔ of newborns around the world and roughly 1/10 of these cases are so severe that it could lead to lifelong disability or death. In the developing world where there is a higher percentage of preterm babies, jaundice kills more than 100,000 infants each year and 6 million babies are unable to get effective treatment for jaundice.

==Detailed description of the solution==
NeoTech Global’s BiliSol Phototherapy System uses sunlight to treat jaundice, while offering protection from the harmful UV rays of the sun. Blue tint is applied to an acrylic sheet to filter sunlight and deliver therapeutic treatment. The filter is attached to an height adjustable stand and mobile base. The system is cost-effective, does not require electricity to operate, and does not need replacement parts.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: NeoTech Global
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location: Raleigh, NC, USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
The BiliSol Phototherapy System is currently a functional prototype undergoing testing in Raleigh, NC, USA. 
The device will be sent to a hospital in Flores, Guatemala for further testing soon.

==Funding Source==

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
* [http://www.appropedia.org Example External URL]

===Other internally generated reports===
===Externally generated reports===
===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->