'''Bioneers''', also known as the '''Collective Heritage Institute''', is a New Mexico-based nonprofit organization promoting practical and innovative solutions to environmental and social problems based in a philosophy which recognizes the aliveness, interdependence, and intelligence of the natural world.  Bioneers holds an annual conference each October in San Rafael, California. Plenary sessions from the main conference are also broadcast through satellite feeds to "Beaming Bioneers" conferences held simultaneously at sites in various locations throughout the United States and Canada. Collective Heritage Institute/Bioneers was founded in 1990.

==Origin of name==
'''[[Bioneer]]''' (root: "biological pioneer") is a name coined by founder Kenny Ausubel.<ref name="utne">Utne Reader. (1999 Mar-Apr). [http://www.utne.com/1999-03-01/15IdeasThatCouldShaketheWorld.aspx "15 Ideas That Could Shake the World"]. ''Utne Reader''. Retrieved on 2009-08-14.</ref> It describes individuals and groups working in diverse disciplines who have crafted creative solutions to various environmental and socio-cultural problems rooted in shared core values, including whole systems, anticipatory thinking, a view of all life as interdependent, and sustainable mutual aid.

==Annual conference==

The first annual Bioneers Conference, organized by Kenny Ausubel and Nina Simons, took place in 1990.  Currently the conference takes place annually in San Rafael, California, on the third weekend in October. The conference highlights the work of scientific and social innovators and helps support, nurture and propagate their ideas and models. Conference speakers come from interdisciplinary fields: environmental and socio-political activism; "green" biology, chemistr], design, architecture and urban planning; organic and "beyond organic" farming and gardening;indigenous perspectives; biodiversity, [[bioremediation]], and wildland preservation; alternative energy; engaged spirituality, literature and the arts; holistic and "ecological" medicine; ethnobotany; socially-responsible]] entrepreneurship, business and philanthropy; the environmental justice, women's and youth movements; independent media; etc.

In many cases the technological or social solutions to problems showcased are founded on emulation of natural self-organizing systems.

===Beaming Bioneers===

In 2002, Bioneers expanded with the addition of [http://beaming.bioneers.org/ simultaneous satellite conferences], called "Beaming Bioneers," which model themselves after the conference in San Rafael.  Beaming Bioneers sites screen satellite feeds of plenary speakers from the national conference, while also serving as conferences that focus on regional solutions and presenters.

==Other activities==

Some of the non-profit's events and projects include: hands-on trainings in various aspects of [[organic agriculture]]; the building of a membership base; books; radio series; audio-tapes and DVDs; newsletters; reports; live satellite feeds of the conference to many locales; spin-off events around the country and internationally; film festivals; special youth organizing initiatives; etc.

==See also==
*[[Andy Lipkis]]
*[[Ecovillage]]
<!--*[[Oceanography#Notable oceanographers|Oceanographers]]--->
*[[Water Keeper]]
<!--*[[Wild Green]]--->

==Notes==
<references/>

== External links ==
*[http://www.biomimeticsregistry.net Biomimetic Connections, LLC - Advancing the commercialization of 'biological paradigms']
*[http://www.biomimeticsregistry.net BioParadigm ACCESS - Consolidates monthly information on available bio-inspired/biomimetic intellectual property (IP) for product designers, engineers and material scientists worldwide]
*[http://bioneers.org/ Bioneers.org] - site of the Collective Heritage Institute.
*[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/kenny-ausubel/ Read a blog by Founder Kenny Ausubel at [[Huffington Post]]]
* [http://www.bioneers.org/programs/satellite/ Beaming Bioneers (satellite conferences)]
**[http://www.glbconference.org/ Great Lakes Bioneers Conference] ''(20–22 October 2006)''
**[http://www.inspiringfutures.org/bioneers Bioneers Southeast Leadership Forum] ''(Atlanta, GA)''
**[http://www.connectingforchange.org/ Bioneers by the Bay: Connecting for Change] ''(Dartmouth, MA)''
**[http://www.hbconference.org/ Heartland Bioneers] ''(Carbondale, IL)''
==Attribution==
This page was imported by Geof Bard without edit from Wikipedia. Due to time constraints, this copy was not edited but is presumably free of egregious error. Please feel free to make copyedits as may be warranted. Attribution for this content includes all edits prior to August 1, 2011 at http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bioneers&action=history

[[Category:Organizations]]