{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality, 
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa, North America
|Image=Bluline.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Neonatal jaundice, also known as hyperbilirubinemia, is a shockingly common condition that occurs when infants’ livers are not fully developed. Low-resource settings often do not have the necessary devices to treat infants with neonatal jaundice because  traditional phototherapy devices are too expensive for the developing world.  They are also impractical due to frequent power outages.

==Detailed description of the solution==
BluLine Phototherapy uses LED technology to treat neonatal jaundice.  The device includes a long lasting light blub and can be powered by a car or motorcycle battery.  The LED technology consumes much less power than fluorescent tubes, and the battery offers 24 hours of power supply.  Approximately the size of a boomerang, BluLine Phototherapy is also very portable.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Duke University; PhotoGensis Medical
*Manufacturer location: Durham, NC

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Being field tested in Honduras, Tanzania, and Nicaragua

==References==

===Other internally generated reports===
Photogensis Medical. (2008). Retrieved November 20 2013 from [http://www.photogenesismedical.com/product.html here].

===Externally generated reports===
Maternova. (January 11 2013). BluLine Phototherapy. Retrieved November 20 2013 from [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/bluline-phototherapy here].
<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->