'''Bottling''' is the process of placing a [[beverage]] or [[solid food]] into a [[bottle]]. Often, CO² is injected before the beverage or solid food is inserted to the bottle, so as to reduce/eliminate the presence of oxygen and thus increase shelf life. It should be noted that bottling is different from regular [[canning]] as it uses a bottle as the container, and the container is not heated once it has been sealed (to kill off microorganisms in the sealed container). The latter also explains why it's also different from [[home canning]]. It is also different from [[vacuum packing]] as bottling does not remove ''all'' oxygen (when injecting co² most oxygen is however removed).  

Note that with bottling a [[cork]] is generally used (when storing liquids) to close off the bottle. Corks are semi-permeable, allowing the liquid to "breathe", yet still keep much of the oxygen of reaching the food, hence allowing preservation of the food. It can also be used for solid foods, yet in this instance (as well as in the instance with the liquid) it is not vital. It just helps with liquids to get rid of any gases that might still be released by the liquid after it has been bottled (ie as with bottled wine). 

==Methods==
* Solid food can be stored in bottles with large openings, and closed with a cork<ref>[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nicolas_Appert Appert's cork bottling method]</ref>
* Liquids are best stored in bottles with a small diameter neck, so as to limit the oxygen amount that can reach the liquid even more.

==References==
{{reflist}}

[[Category:Food storage]]