{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Asia
|Image=1-s2.0-S0020729206000671-gr1.sml.gif
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Postpartum hemorrhaging is one of the most severe causes of maternal mortality. PPH (Postpartum hemorrhaging) rates in the developed worlds have severely decreased, but they are still a great threat in developing countries. The World Health Organization suggests that there are over 100,000 deaths due to postpartum hemorrhaging every year.
==Detailed description of the solution==
This device is classified as one which helps in PPH estimation.  This single use blood collection drape consists of a funneled and calibrated collection pouch that is attached to a plastic sheet, which is placed under the woman’s buttocks immediately after delivery, tied to her abdomen with two belts located in the upper end of the drape, to estimate the postpartum blood loss. 
==Designed by==
*Designed by:

A group of designers including Patel. 

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
It was tested in 2003 at the District Hospital in Belgaum, Karnataka, India.

==Funding Source==

Global Network UMKC/ JNMC/UIC

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Patel, A., et al., Drape estimation vs. visual assessment for estimating postpartum hemorrhage. International Journal of Gynecology and Obstetrics, 2006. 93(3): p. 220-224.

===Other internally generated reports===
===Externally generated reports===

===IP and copyright===

===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->