In the last few decades, thousands of technology and infrastructure projects aimed at the developing world and environmental [[sustainability]] have sprung into action. What could life in the developing world look like 10 years from now if all these projects take root? We're making a [[Burning Man]] cabal (camp) in 2008 to find out just that. 

We're building a camp in the middle of a Nevada desert that actually implements - in a real, live, fully inhabited minivillage - the technologies and plans each of our projects has been developing independently. It's a way to see all these initiatives working together and to explore the symbiotic relationships that would grow between them in an actual village. It's a look at what the developing world ''could'' be within a decade. Actually, since we'll be using working production models of all our systems, it's a look at what the developing world could look like... right now.

'''We're looking for interested groups and people.''' If you have a project with a fully working implementation that focuses on [[appropriate technology]] & infrastructure, contact us.

== Coming ==
Sign yourself up if you want to join the crew. Mel, Smari, and Vinay are currently the core organizers of this effort.

* [[User:Mchua|Mel Chua]] ([[OLPC]]) - Cheap sustainable computing / education (firstname at firstnamelastname dot dom)
* [[User:Spm|Smari McCarthy]] ([[Fablab]]) - Cheap sustainable personal manufacturing
* [[User:Vinay Gupta|Vinay Gupta]] ([[Hexayurt]]) - Cheap sustainable housing

=== Helping ===
If you want to help out but aren't sure if you can make it to the playa next year yet, add your name here, along with some way to contact you.

* [[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] ([[Appropedia Foundation]]) (Hoping I can make it to the US and Burning Man) - water and sanitation with minimal resources. Contact via my [[User talk:Chriswaterguy|talk page]]. 
* name (project) - description

== Trying to persuade ==
Particular people & projects we're trying to persuade. Know someone from the same project, or similar projects? Add them to the list (or if you know the org but not a person, to the list below.)

* Marcin ([[OSE]]) - Cheap sustainable local economics
* Laura, Amy ([[D-lab]]) - Cheap sustainable X as research @ universities
* Matt (formerly of [http://www.vehicledesignsummit.org/ VDS] and [http://www.greenmountainengineering.com Green Mountain Engineering]) - Cheap sustainable transportation
* Ben, Marco, Erik, Molly ([[Ideatree]]) - Cheap sustainable sanitation / nonprofit design firms business model
* DP (QUB) - Cheap sustainable (carbon neutral) aircraft design.
* educational institutions - [[Barefoot college]]
* [[AIDG]]
* [[Mayapedal]]
* [[Green wifi]] - mesh wireless internet
* [[OpenMoko]] & [[GNU Radio]] - cellular communications 
* [[Gawad Kalinga]] - village building 

== What's missing ==
Types of projects and specific projects we don't have specific people in mind for yet. Add ideas to this list, ping folks you know.

* more educational institutions
* garbage disposal (''for recycling and sorting, maybe have some info & demo of [[Recycling and dengue fever in Sukunan, Indonesia]]. That's more about the developing world, so we should look for others too.'')
* public healthcare
* small scale democracy
* localized [[renewable energy]] sources


[[Category:Burning Man]]