''''''



== Notes and references ==
{{reflist}}

== See also ==

* [[*/]]
* [[*/]]
* [[*/]]

== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:]]
* [Anti-lock braking system (ABS) is an automobile safety system that allows the wheels on a motor vehicle to maintain tractive contact with the road surface according to driver inputs while braking, preventing the wheels from locking up (ceasing rotation) and avoiding uncontrolled skidding. It is an automated system that uses the principles of threshold braking and cadence braking which were practiced by skillful drivers with previous generation braking systems. It does this at a much faster rate and with better control than a driver could manage.
Early systems:
ABS was first developed for aircraft use in 1929 by the French automobile and aircraft pioneer Gabriel Voisin.The use of the drum and flywheel meant the valve only opened when the wheel was turning. In testing, a 30% improvement in braking performance was noted, because the pilots immediately applied full brakes instead of slowly increasing pressure in order to find the skid point. An additional benefit was the elimination of burned or burst tires.
A fully mechanical system saw limited automobile use in the 1960s in the Ferguson P99 racing car, the Jensen FF, and the experimental all wheel drive Ford Zodiac, but saw no further use; the system proved expensive and unreliable.

The first fully electronic anti lock system was developed in the late 60s for the Concorde aircraft.

Modern systems :
Chrysler, together with the Bendix Corporation, introduced a computerized, three-channel, four-sensor all-wheel ABS called "Sure Brake" for its 1971 Imperial.
1971: Electronically controlled anti-skid brakes on Toyota Crown[16] In 1972, four wheel drive Triumph 2500 Estates were fitted with Mullard electronic systems as standard. Such cars were very rare however and very few survive today.

In 1985 the Ford Scorpio was introduced to European market with a Teves electronic system throughout the range as standard. For this the model was awarded the coveted European Car of the Year Award in 1986, with very favourable praise from motoring journalists. After this success Ford began research into Anti-Lock systems for the rest of their range, which encouraged other manufacturers to follow suit.

Operation:
The anti-lock brake controller is also known as the CAB (Controller Anti-lock Brake)!!!
If a fault develops in any part of the ABS, a warning light will usually be illuminated on the vehicle instrument panel, and the ABS will be disabled until the fault is rectified.

Modern ABS applies individual brake pressure to all four wheels through a control system of hub-mounted sensors and a dedicated micro-controller. ABS is offered or comes standard on most road vehicles produced today and is the foundation for electronic stability control systems, which are rapidly increasing in popularity due to the vast reduction in price of vehicle electronics over the years.

]

== External links ==

* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-lock_braking_system] 
* [http://t1.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcTI5jLr6jaWBWkhUdfulMJqY2RXlZLdxjgbTP8vZ9kWmVK3ddXQ_CoCO1g]


{{stub}}

[[Category:]]
[[Category:]]