'''Carbon dioxide''' is formed by the complete combustion of carbon or compounds of carbon (principally the hydrocarbons). It is a [[greenhouse gas]].

== Chemistry ==

Carbon dioxide is first a tri-atomic molecule {one atom of carbon and two of oxygen, yet it is not usually known as such}. Carbon dioxide is a compound (that is to say a Substance that is made up from more than one type of atom).

Carbon dioxide [CO2] is chemically represented as O=C=O [O double bond C double bond O].

The molecule is linear and non-polar.

CO2 is made from two different types of Atoms - this is noted by the -ide suffix. In this case, diox- means two oxygens.

Oxygen needs to make and share two covalent chemical bonds to 'be happy'; Carbon needs to make four. This is to help explain the molecular formula O=C=O.

It is also produced by the reaction of carbonates or hydrogen carbonates with acids, and by heating carbonates (without water).

Plants convert atmospheric CO2 and water vapor into carbohydrates - photosynthesis needs both chlorophyll and Sunlight.

Chemical double bonds occur in many instances, starting with H2C=CH2 [ethylene] and O=C=O.

== Behavior ==

CO2 is moderately soluble in water; it is the acid-anhydride of carbonic acid. In other words, solutions of carbon dioxide are acidic. Carbon dioxide reacts with water to form carbonic acid, H2CO3; however the reaction is not complete - most of the carbon dioxide exists in solution as CO2 molecules.

The phase [solid/liquid/gas/plasma phases] diagram for CO2 shows that at one Atmosphere [1 atm] of pressure CO2 has a freezing point temperature of -78.5 degrees C. CO2 like most substances contracts upon freezing.

However, upon thawing, CO2 sublimates - it trans-phases directly from Solid to Vapor. 

The phase diagram also shows that The Triple Point of CO2 [where solid, liquid and gaseous States (phases) may co-exist] 'occurs' at 5.11 atm and at -56.6 degrees C. In this case, this means that CO2 cannot be a Liquid below 5.11 atm.


== Climate change and CO<sub>2</sub> ==

Increasing levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere trap more of the sun's heat, raising average temperatures and changing climate patterns - i.e. causing [[climate change]].

This is due to human activity, releasing carbon underground trapped in [[fossil fuels]]. 

There are other chemical atmospheric discharges that are more actively greenhouse gases than carbon, yet the effects of these are 'side-lined' when put up against our incessantly increasing deposition of CO<sub>2</sub> - into Our One and Only Paper Thin Atmosphere.


[[Category:Chemical substances]]
[[Category:Climate change]]