This '''carbon capture search engine''' helps find information related to [[carbon capture and storage]] (CCS) as well as related areas such as [[carbon dioxide utilization|utilization]] of captured carbon.

{{shortcut|CCSE}}
<center>
{{#widget:Google Gadget
|url=http://www.google.com/cse/api/010475139252798918668/cse/jn3nv5lrr0a/gadget
|title=Carbon Capture Search
|width=360
|height=76
}}
</center>
<center><small>If the search box isn't displaying correctly here, it's a temporary problem. See [http://www.google.com/cse/home?cx=010475139252798918668:jn3nv5lrr0a Carbon Capture Search] in the meantime.</small></center>

{{TOCright}}

== About this search ==

This search engine was built by [[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] to help in research for for the [http://www.globalccsinstitute.com/ Global CCS Institute]'s [http://www.globalccsinstitute.com/community/openccs/openccs OpenCCS] project, a [[wiki]]-style knowledge base

This search engine is a work in progress, but is already of some use.

Some points on its current state:
* Searching tends brings up research papers first, before applying filters. Site priorities need to be tweaked.
* If you have trouble finding a definition of a term in CCS, or basic information about a CCS topic, try the "CCS orgs" filter, in the "Refine results" options after you search.
* The "Open content" filter needs to be fixed. 

If you have a site to suggest, or want the list of sites used, please leave a note on the {{talk page}}. I'm happy to share, but I'm planning to make time for that when development is mostly finished. --[[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] 08:08, 20 November 2011 (PST)

== Development ideas ==

Finding more government sites - search for
* URL patterns? energy.*.gov, carbon.*.gov 
* "climatechange" site:.gov ccs OR "carbon capture" OR "carbon dioxide capture" 
* cut down the noise for these searches with -site:climatechange.ca.gov -site:epa.gov...

== Notes and references ==

{{reflist}}

== See also ==

* [[Public Domain Search]]

== External links ==

* [http://www.globalccsinstitute.com/community/openccs/openccs OpenCCS] - open knowledge project on the details of CCS and CCS projects.

{{add links}}


[[Category:Climate change]]
[[Category:Custom searches]]