=Background=

If some sort of price is put on carbon to help regulate it in the markets, like through a carbon tax, it should be easy to get information on it. However, it is difficult to find one database that consists of all the carbon costs, types of market regulation and policy main points. This page covers literature found about carbon pricing and carbon finance.

In order to plan, carbon pricing needs to be a certainty to reduce supply chain risk for companies.

Readers: Any one who finds additional data or links, please feel free to add them.


=Literature Review=

==Carbon Price==

valentina's work to be added

===The Marginal Effects of the Price for Carbon Dioxide: Quantifying the Effects on the Market for Electric Generation in Florida (2010)===
Theodore J. Kury, Julie Harrington, The Marginal Effects of the Price for Carbon Dioxide: Quantifying the Effects on the Market for Electric Generation in Florida, The Electricity Journal, Volume 23, Issue 4, May 2010, Pages 73-78, ISSN 1040-6190, DOI: 10.1016/j.tej.2010.04.001.

'''Abstract:''' 
Greater emphasis on public policy aimed at internalizing the societal cost of carbon dioxide emissions leads to more questions about the economic impacts of that policy. In cooperation with the State of Florida's Department of Environmental Protection, the authors have constructed a model to simulate the dispatch of electric generating units to serve electric load in the state - and obtained some counterintuitive results.

===The Price of Carbon (2010)===
Jo Abbess, The Price of Carbon,20 April 2010 [http://www.joabbess.com/2010/04/30/the-price-of-carbon/]
<br/>
*Lot of references
*It is clear we need to respect the climate sensitivity indicated by the best scientific research, by adopting some form of quota arrangement, but will pricing emissions enforce this ?

===Carbon Credits: The Price of Pollution (2010)===
Carbon Credits: The Price of Pollution, Matt Horne, Published: March 03, 2010
Read more: http://www.bcbusinessonline.ca/bcb/business-sense/2010/03/03/carbon-credits-price-pollution#ixzz0tDdGf1HA

* Horne is the director of B.C. energy solutions at the Pembina Institute, a sustainable energy think-tank.

===Calculating The True Cost Of Carbon (2009)===
David Serchuk, 2009,Calculating The True Cost Of Carbon,Forbes, http://www.forbes.com/2009/06/03/cap-and-trade-intelligent-investing-carbon.html
 
*U.S. firms produce from $60 billion to $80 billion worth of carbon annually but don't pay for it. What the carbon market could mean to investors. 

===Point Carbon Calculates Carbon Cost to America's Largest Emitters (2009)===
Point Carbon Calculates Carbon Cost to America's Largest Emitters, Companies Plotted as Winners and Losers under a US Cap-and-Trade Program: ExxonMobil Most Exposed, Southern Most Vulnerable and Exelon More Prosperous Under US Cap-and-Trade,By CostBenefit on Nov 4, 2009 ,http://www.marketwire.com/press-release/Point-Carbon-1069397.html

*Point Carbon identified the winners and losers in a proposed cap-and-trade system for greenhouse gas emissions in the United States in its latest report Carbon Exposure unveiled on November 2, 2009 at its annual fall conference Carbon Market Insights Americas.

*EU carbon price to rise 49 per cent next year
http://www.businessgreen.com/bg/news/1930950/eu-carbon-price-rise-49-cent

* Carbon price must rise for EU to meet targets and spur investment
http://www.rechargenews.com/business_area/finance/article279792.ece

*EU Carbon Rises to Highest Price in Two Years as German Reactors Are Shut
http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/eu-carbon-allowances-surge-to-highest-price-since-2008-on-nuclear-halts.html

===Carbon Price GHG===
[http://www.global-greenhouse-warming.com/carbon-price.html GHG Carbon Price]- Website BC Business

===Carbon Offset Survey===
[http://www.ecobusinesslinks.com/carbon_offset_wind_credits_carbon_reduction.htm Carbon Offset Wind Credits], July 2010

===What's the Best Way to Price Carbon Emissions: Cap and Trade, Cap and Dividend, or Carbon Tax?===
by Matthew McDermott,What's the Best Way to Price Carbon Emissions: Cap and Trade, Cap and Dividend, or Carbon Tax?, 06.22.10,
Business & Politics,http://www.treehugger.com/files/2010/06/price-carbon-emissions-cap-and-trade-cap-and-dividend-carbon-tax.php

==Carbon Tax==

==Carbon Cap and Trade/ Emission Trading System==

===Developing an Efficient Carbon Emissions Allowance Market (2010)===
S. Viswanathan, F. M. Kirby[http://nicholas.duke.edu/institute/viswanathan.03.10.pdf Developing an Efficient Carbon Emissions Allowance Market],Duke University, Durham NC 27707, March 2010 <br/>

'''Abstract''' Carbon trading works only if markets for carbon provide enough liquidity and ―pricing accuracy,‖ i.e., markets provide prices that are useful for hedgers and other users of carbon markets. Further the creation of a de novo market for carbon assumes that the incentives to create such markets exist and that these markets will occur in the form that regulators desire. We argue that while regulators should receive all relevant information on trades (a trade repository), some discretion is necessary in the structure of markets. We suggest that regulators follow a ―hybrid‖ approach to regulation, where regulators require some markets to be exchange-traded centralized limit order books, require trades between large financial intermediaries to be centrally settled but allow for some contracts to be over-the-counter with the right to move markets to a different reporting or settlement structure as they develop. Such an approach requires the regulator to have genuine discretion in decision making. Some recent examples involving the CFTC and ICE are discussed.

===Creating institutional meaning: Accounting and taxation law perspectives of carbon permits (2010)===
Pamela Mete, Caroline Dick, Lee Moerman, Creating institutional meaning: Accounting and taxation law perspectives of carbon permits, Critical Perspectives on Accounting, In Press, Corrected Proof, Available online 27 May 2010, ISSN 1045-2354, DOI: 10.1016/j.cpa.2010.03.006.

'''Abstract:''' 
Emissions trading schemes based on the idea that markets are an efficient means to allocate resources have created the need for a tradeable right, the carbon permit. The measurement and recognition of this right has the potential to significantly affect the financial reports and cash flows of entities and is therefore of interest to market participants. The purpose of this paper is to analyse the different meanings attached to the term, carbon permit, from two institutional frameworks, accounting and taxation, using discourse analysis of identified key documents available during the design and public discussion of the proposed Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme in Australia.

===Interaction of European Carbon Trading and Energy Prices (2007)===
Derek Bunn, Carlo Fezzi, 2007.[http://www.bepress.com/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1124&context=feem Interaction of European Carbon Trading and Energy Prices],Fondazione Eni Enrico Mattei,Working Papers,Year 2007 Paper 123<ref>
Derek Bunn, Carlo Fezzi, 2007.Interaction of European Carbon Trading and Energy Prices,Fondazione Eni Enrico Mattei,Working Papers,Year 2007 Paper 123
</ref>[http://www.bepress.com/feem/paper123]

'''Abstract''': This paper addresses the economic impact of the EU Emission Trading Scheme for carbon on wholesale electricity and gas prices. Specifically, we analyze the mutual relationships between electricity, gas and carbon prices in the daily spot markets in the United Kingdom. Using a structural co-integrated VAR model, we show how the prices of carbon and gas jointly influence the equilibrium price of electricity. Furthermore, we derive the dynamic pass-trough of carbon into electricity price and the response of electricity and carbon prices to shocks in the gas price.

==Carbon Finance==

===The evolving role of carbon finance in promoting renewable energy development in China (2010)===
Joanna I. Lewis, The evolving role of carbon finance in promoting renewable energy development in China, Energy Policy, Volume 38, Issue 6, The Role of Trust in Managing Uncertainties in the Transition to a Sustainable Energy Economy, Special Section with Regular Papers, June 2010, Pages 2875-2886, ISSN 0301-4215, DOI: 10.1016/j.enpol.2010.01.020.
'''Abstract:''' 
The world is negotiating what the international climate change regime will look like after 2012--the year that current Kyoto Protocol greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets expire--and the future of the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) is under discussion. Critics claim the scale of reductions that the CDM is driving in the developing world is insufficient from a scientific perspective if we are to avoid dangerous climate change, that the project-by-project crediting process is inefficient, and that the reductions being achieved are not 'additional'--meaning they would have happened anyway and thus should not be financially supported. Yet, the efficacy of CDM must be examined in the broader context of carbon mitigation in the developing world and the actions that are taking place. This paper examines the role that the CDM has played in promoting renewable energy development in China in order to assess how international carbon finance can best be used to help promote emissions mitigation in the developing world. It also assesses how several options under consideration for reforming the current structure of the CDM in particular and developing country engagement in general may impact renewable energy development in China in the coming years.
Keywords: China renewable energy; Clean Development Mechanism; International climate change policy

=Databases=

*'''New Energy Finance: Carbon Market,[http://carbon.newenergyfinance.com/?p=about&i=pressreleases Bloomberg New Energy Finance]'''
- updates on prices and press releases

*'''[http://www.pointcarbon.com/ Point Carbon]''':
-Point Carbon is a world-leading provider of independent news, analysis and consulting services for European and global power, gas and carbon markets.

*'''[https://www.cdproject.net/en-US/Pages/HomePage.aspx Carbon Disclosure Project]'''
-The Carbon Disclosure Project is an independent not-for-profit organization holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world.

*'''[http://www.carbonmarketdata.com/ Carbon Market Data]'''

*'''[http://www.ecosystemmarketplace.com/ Ecosystem Market Place ]'''

=Resources=

*Carbon Accounting Software Market Experiencing Huge Period of Growth, BY FC Expert Blogger Tracey de Morsella, Mar 1, 2010,http://www.fastcompany.com/1565844/carbon-accounting-software-market-experiencing-tremendous-growth

*GHG Institute Courses: http://ghginstitute.org/index.php?menu=82
*Point Carbon CO2 courses: http://www.pointcarbon.com/events/trainingcourse/cointro/
*Calculations and carbon emission factors (transportation and home): http://www.carbonneutralcalculator.com/Carbon%20Offset%20Factors%20-%20Sep09.pdf

=Citations=
<references/>

[[Policy]] <br/>


== See also ==

* [[Carbon offset]]

[[Category:Queens Applied Sustainability Group Literature Reviews]]
[[Category: Electricity]]
[[Category: Energy]]

[[Category:Policies]]
[[Category: Kadra Branker Thesis 2011]]