== ABSTRACT ==

<center>''You can put an abstract here. ''</center>

{{TOCright}}

== Introduction ==
This project is pretty straight forward.  CCAT has 6-7 fallen redwood trees in various diameters that are located toward the rear of the property adjacent to the BSS building.  CCAT for the past 3 years has without any success been trying to get the logs milled for in-house projects. The management of this project will be divided into 3 phases: removal, milling and kilning (I hope that's a word), and the eventual delivery of usable processed lumber.

"If trees could talk, they would probably be to busy stomping on us."

== Criteria ==
The criteria in which we will rate the success of this project will be on the following:
# Locally Milled
# Top soil disturbance
# Safety
# Yield
# Educational Opportunities
# Cost

== Project Requirements ==
The main goal is to get the logs processed into usable lumber.

== Proposed Timeline ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Date
! Goal
|-
| '''3/07/09'''
| Finish Research
|-
| '''3/19/09'''
| Implement Milling
|-
| '''4/01/09'''
| Deliver Processed Products
|-
| '''4/7/09'''
| Finish Appropedia Page
|}

== Conclusions ==
After talking with HSU's forestry department and local millers in the area, we have decided not to go forward with this project.  It turns out that the logs that have been waiting for us to mill are no longer suitable due to rot and termite infestation.  Redwood at first glance seems to be resilient to the elements, but must be emphasized that old growth follows these characteristics; while younger growth tends to be more vulnerable.  I have recommended to CCAT and all involved that the best possible use of these logs could be for outdoor steps, fixtures in the garden, and maybe as non standardized pieces of a buildings structure.

== Literature Review ==
This is a review of the available literature pertinent to redwood trees, logging, and milling.

*California Redwood Association. "Redwood: Lumber Grades and Uses." California Redwoods. 17 Feb. 2009 <http://www.calredwood.org/ref/pdf/graduse.pdf>.
** This article synopsizes redwood lumber grades and uses.  It describes how its natural resistance to pests and fungi make it very attractive in wetter climates; it also depicts how well it holds paints, stains, and other coatings.  It's naturally long lasting characteristics, dimensional stability, and finish retention is also emphasized.

*Day, David, and Albert Jackson. Collins Complete Woodworker's Manual. London: Collins, 2005.
** The excerpts in this book describe a general overview of wood harvesting and specific uses: from framing lumber to finish grade lumber.  It also explains the process of understanding what to look for in harvesting certain types of lumber.

*Armpriest, Diane, Madan Mehta, and Walter Scarborough. Building Construction: Principles, Materials, and Systems. Alexandria, VA: Prentice Hall, 2006.
** This particular book is a comprehensive reference to principles, materials, and systems for the built environment.  Ch. 11-14 specifies framing lumber, grades, and uses.

*Shade-avoidance responses in two common coastal redwood forest species, Sequoia sempervirens (Taxodiaceae) and Satureja douglasii (Lamiaceae), occurring in various light quality environments. 17 Feb. 2009 <http://www.amjbot.org/cgi/content/abstract/86/5/640>.
** This journal addresses shade-avoidance responses with respect end of day red spectrum supplementation.

[[Category:Engr305 Appropriate Technology]]
[[Category:Projects]]
[[Category:Resources]]