I'm going to figure out what to do with CCAT's [[bamboo]] plants.

== Background ==
In the beginning when the Earth was still young, the gods Bathala, Aman Sinaya, and Amihan were the only beings that existed. Bathala was god of the Sky (Langit) and Aman Sinaya was goddess of the Sea (Linaw). The two had been fierce rivals for a long time. Every day, they would try to outdo each other; Bathala using his lightning bolts and thunder, and Aman Sinaya using her waves and typhoons.
One day, Aman Sinaya decided to send her tempests,into the Sky to cause a wild commotion. In order to stop her, Bathala threw giant boulders that came from atop of the mountains. It created thousands of islands onto the surface of the Sea (which became to be the Philippine archipelago). Amihan, the North Wind in the middle of the two realms, decided to stop the battle once and for all by taking the form of a bird. He then flew back and fourth between them. This made the Sky and the Sea closer than it was before. At the point where the two realms met, both gods agreed to end the fight and become friends.
As a sign of friendship, Bathala planted a seed underneath the ocean floor. It soon grew into a bamboo reed, sticking out of the edge of the Sea. Amihan had gazed upon it one day and heard voices, coming from inside the bamboo. "Oh, North Wind! North Wind! Please let us out.", the voices said. He pecked the reed once, then twice. When all of a sudden, the bamboo cracked and slit open. Inside were two human beings; one was a male, and the other was a female.  Amihan named the man, Malakas ("strong"), and the woman, Maganda ("beautiful"). He then flew them onto one of the islands where they settled, built a house, and had millions of offsprings that populated the Earth.
-Filipino Creation Story

== Opportunity ==
I am living and working in O'ahu cultivating plants and learning about native agriculture.  I am working with Kumuola Foundation in Manoa O'ahu, with a plentiful amount of bamboo growing on the land.  We intend to harvest.  I will report findings as they come up.

== Criteria ==
Criteria.
Should be thick.
Should be durable.


For growing the bamboo.
*Cost.  I would like this project to be as inexpensive as possible.
*Health of the earth.  I would like to make sure that the cultivation of the bamboo keeps the soil around it healthy and the plant does not spread where it is not supposed to.
*Efficiency of water use.  The use of water should be as limited as possible.  This will be easy because there is so much rain around here.


For curing the bamboo.
*Most yield of bamboo for product.  I'd like to make sure that I can do as much as possible with the bamboo that is available.
*Ease of curing technique.  The curing of bamboo should not be complicated.
*Practicality of product.  The product should be somewhat practical and useful.  
*Aesthetics of product.  The product should look beautiful.

== Literature Review ==
*Small-Scale Harvesting Operations of Wood and Non-Wood Forest Projects Involving Rural People
by Virgilio de la Cruz and Andre Mayer Fellow
*Bamboos: A Gardener's Guide to their Cultivation in Temperate Climates
by Alexander High Lawson
*The Book of Bamboo
by David Farrelly
*Building with Bamboo
by Jules J.A. Janssen
*Formation of Bamboo
by Haumichi Kitao

[[Category:Bamboo]]
[[Category:Engr305 Appropriate Technology]]
[[Category:CCAT]]