{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality, 
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia, North America, South America
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
The lack of accessible immunization techniques for otherwise preventable illnesses is a major cause of death in low-resource settings. Because health information networking and storage is often limited in these areas, health care workers are less likely to know when and what vaccines should be given to a specific patient at a given time.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Hanseatic Institute of Technology is programming a simple biometrics program that uses a phone’s camera to analyze the creases of a child’s ears and feet in order to identify specific patients.  These images will be sent to a central server, to which will send text messages back to parents and health care workers.  The messages will include information regarding that unique patient’s health and vaccination needs.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Mohit Kumar of Hanseatic Institute of Technology
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location: Rostock, Germany

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==

==Funding Source==
Recipient of Grand Challenges Explorations Grant

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
A. Kumar, M. Hanmandlu, M. Kuldeep, H.M. Gupta. “Automatic Ear Detection for Online Biometric Application.” Computer Vision, Pattern Recognition, Image Processing and Graphic. (2011): Pg. 146-149. Web. Retrieved January 9, 2014 from [http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6133022&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fiel5%2F6132472%2F6132986%2F06133022.pdf%3Farnumber%3D6133022 here.]

===Other internally generated reports===
===Externally generated reports===
Grand Challenges in Global Health. (2012). Normal Cell Phone-Based Intelligent Biometrics for Children. Retrieved December 5, 2013 from [http://www.grandchallenges.org/Explorations/Pages/GrantsAwarded.aspx?Topic=Cell%20phone%20applications&Round=all&Phase=1 here.]

Glass Pockets (2012). Retrieved December 5, 2013 from [http://maps.foundationcenter.org/rc/grants/html/48835.html here.]

===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->