{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Malaria
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Malariaphone.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Diagnosing malaria through blood detection can often times be difficult because not many cells in the blood will contain malaria.

==Detailed description of the solution==
Different cells respond to surface acoustic waves in different ways. Response to different frequencies is dependent upon elasticity and shape of the cells. Malaria changes the elasticity and shape of red blood cells. Surface acoustic waves are used to sort out the cells infected by malaria from those that aren't. The waves are emitted utilizing a cell phone.

==Describe relevance to developing country settings==
This device can be utilized using mobile phones which are readily available in many developing settings. It can be used to diagnose malaria in any area that it is needed where mobile phones are available.

==Designed by==
The following people were involved in the design from the University of Glasgow:
*Jon Cooper
*Mike Barrett
*Dr. Lisa Ranford-Cartwright
 
==Funding Source==
The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation provided $100,000 for this endeavor.

==References==
===Internally generated reports===
University of Glasgow. (2011, July 5). Experts to develop mobile phone malaria detector. University of Glasgow: University news. Link available [http://www.gla.ac.uk/news/headline_204155_en.html here].

===Externally generated reports===
BBC News. (2011, Jul 5). Bill Gates backs Glasgow University malaria project. BBC News. Link available [http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-glasgow-west-14029925 here].

Mensah, Kent. (2009, April 24). AfricaNews - Malaria device detector invented. AfricaNews.com. Link available [http://www.africanews.com/site/Malaria_device_detector_invented/list_messages/24496 here].

"University of Glasgow | Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation ." The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation . N.p., n.d. Web. 3 Feb. 2012.