{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality, Child mortality 
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Right after childbirth, infection is a large problem during the cutting of the umbilical cord for both mother and child. 277,376 neonatal deaths alone attributed to tetanus in 1997 according to the World Health Organization, which are due to improper sterilization of the cutting tool. Additionally, there is a high cost associated with the use of disposable scalpels, which may encourage developing nations to reuse them and thus perpetuate the risk of infection.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The device is a pair of ceramic scissors which is easily sterilized. The device is expected to reduce the risk of infection related to tetanus and other diseases due to improper sterilization of disposable scalpels or using a rusty scalpel. The ceramic scissors stay sharp longer than metal scalpels and are not prone to rusting.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: This device was designed by Margo Klar, a graduate student at the University of Florida and at Yale University.
 
==Funding Source==
This device was made possible through a $100,000 grant from the Gates Grand Challenges Exploration.

==References==
===Externally generated reports===
Fox, Allyson. "The kindest cut." College of Public Health & Health Professions, University of Florida. N.p., n.d. Web. 2 Jan. 2013. Link available [http://phhp.ufl.edu/2012/03/05/the-kindest-cut/ here].

"Technologies innovations maternal neonatal newborn." Maternova offers neonatal health devices, obstetric supplies at low cost.. N.p., n.d. Web. 2 Jan. 2013. Link available [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/ceramic-cord-scissors here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->