{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=North America
|Image=Cerviscope.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Cervical cancer is the leading cause of women’s death in developing countries. The Western Journal of Medicine estimates that it causes about 190,000 deaths per year. This is largely in part to the lack of early detection of the condition and therefore, lack of preventative measures.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This portable colposcope is a cervical cancer screening device that allows up to 8X magnified visual inspection of the cervix. The doctor applies acetic acid to the cervix to expose precancerous lesions, turning them white. White or green light is then used to illuminate the cancerous tissue. Whether the lesion needs to be treated or removed can be decided from there.  This lightweight, inexpensive, electricity-independent device can identify precancerous tissue in a matter of minutes.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Family Health Ministries and the ImaGyn group at Duke University
*Manufacturer location: Florida, Oregon

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Ethiopia, Malawi, Guatemala, Pakistan, India, Nigeria, Kenya, Tanzania, Argentina, Honduras, Nicaragua and Haiti, 1992

==Funding Source==
Goldman Sachs, Applied Technologies Inc., Clinton Bush Haiti Fund ($731,130)

==References==

===Other internally generated reports===
Family Health Ministries. (July 2012). Colposcope Development. Retrieved November 13 2013 from [http://familyhm.org/our-work/colposcope-development here]

===Externally generated reports===
Maternova. (January 11 2013). Cerviscope. Retrieved November 13 2013 from [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/cerviscope here]

Chevalier-Batik, Sandra H. Holy Hormones Journal. (May 2 2009). The Story Behind the CerviScope. Retrieved November 13 2013 from [http://holyhormones.com/womens-health/cancer-womens-health/cervical-cancer/the-story-behind-the-cerviscope/ here]

===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->