This page is a mutual brainstorming page about what's the best way to travel and see the world at the lowest possible cost.

==Ways to travel and see the world==
A lot of [[w:Independent_travel|independent travelers]] travel the world by the [[w:Backpacking_(travel)|backpacking method]]. Although this may be ? cheapest, it does not allow you to travel totally on your own and still locks you tied up to someone else which will transport you (eg airplane, subway, train, ...). Having your own method of transport (eg boat) may offer more advantages here (but might not be as cheap).

==By airplane==
Several [[w:Low-cost_carrier|low cost airlines]] allow people to get at destination at the lowest possible cost of all modes of transport. At [http://wikitravel.org/en/Discount_airlines This wikitravel article] you can find the low-cost airlines operating in each continent/area.

==By train==
Thomas cook has a useful book on the destinations done by trains: [http://www.thomascookpublishing.com/series.htm?series=Timetables Overseas timetable: railway, road and shipping services outside Europe]

== By (sail)boat==
[[w:Cruising_(maritime)|Cruising]] is another way to see the world.
Sailing [http://wikitravel.org/en/Hitchhiking_boats along on other people's sailboats] or getting your own is another possibility. [[w:Cutter_%28ship%29|Cutters]], as well as confiscated boats by the navy and fishing boats may be the cheapest ships to obtain <ref>[http://www.marktplaats.nl/index.php?sref=http%3A//www.google.nl/search%3Fhl%3Dnl%26rlz%3D1B3GGIC_nlBE270BE270%26q%3Dboot+kopen+and+kottertje%26btnG%3DZoeken%26meta%3D&url=http%3A//kopen.marktplaats.nl/watersport-en-boten/motorboten-jachten-en-tourboten/c989.html%3Fxl%3D1%26ds%3Dto%253A1%253Bl1%253A976%253Bl2%253A989%253Blt%253Azip%253Bsfds%253A%253Bpt%253A0%253Bmp%253Anumeric%253Bpu%253A0%253Bosi%253A2%26ppu%3D0%26p%3D6%26srt%3Ddu%26xref%3D1 Cutters price]</ref><ref>[http://www.inthepresentsea.com/escape.html Webb Chiles giving advice on what boat to buy]</ref> (can be fitted afterwards with sails) or [[w:Boat_building|building one yourself]] may be an other option.

==Finding cheap hostels==
Cheap [[w:Hostel|hostels]] can be found at [http://www.hihostels.com/ Hostel International]

==Equipment==
The [[Survival wallet]] may be very handy in making long voyages and a UMPC might also be handy.
Further info may be obtained from Doug Lansky's Travel survival book

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
* [http://www.wikitravel.org/ WikiTravel]
* [http://www.instructables.com/id/9-simple-measures-to-become-green-healthy-and-soc/ Travelling and living your life ecological/ethical]

[[Category:Travel]]