{| cellpadding="8" cellspacing="0"
|- valign="top" 
| style="background:white" width="52%"|
{{Photowantedsca}}
A page and a subsection of CASwiki [[CASwiki places|place]], [[Community action for sustainability/topics merge log|topic]] and [[Community action for sustainability/resources merge log|resource]] articles to build and share transparency, data and data awareness for all, but especially ordinary citizens and community groups.

== Resources ==

{{#widget:YouTube|id=zfJUcgH2Wzc}}

*[http://schoolofdata.org/ School of Data], works to empower civil society organizations, journalists and citizens with the skills they need to use data effectively in their efforts to create more equitable and effective societies. 

'''Books'''

*[http://beyondtransparency.org/ Beyond Transparency], 2013

=== Citizens data initiative ===

{{#widget:YouTube|id=Ezn1ne2Fj6Y}}

[https://earthengine.google.org/ Google Earth Engine] 

How's Life? 2015, Measuring Well-being [http://www.oecd.org/social/how-s-life-23089679.htm oecd.org]

[http://www.worldometers.info/ Worldometers], real time world statistics

=== Infographics ===
*Five Data Visualization Tools Focused on Design, July 25, 2014 [http://blog.visual.ly/data-visualization-tools-focused-design/ Visually Blog]
*[https://infogr.am/ infogr.am]
*[http://www.dataunity.org Data Unity]

=== Networks ===

[https://okfn.org/ Open Knowledge], worldwide non-profit network of people passionate about openness, using advocacy, technology and training to unlock information and enable people to work with it to create and share knowledge. {{W|Open Knowledge}}

[http://publiclab.org/ Public Lab]. The Public Laboratory for Open Technology and Science (Public Lab) is a community -- supported by a 501(c)3 non-profit -- which develops and applies open-source tools to environmental exploration and investigation. By democratizing inexpensive and accessible Do-It-Yourself techniques, Public Lab creates a collaborative network of practitioners who actively re-imagine the human relationship with the environment.

The core Public Lab program is focused on "civic science" in which we research open source hardware and software tools and methods to generate knowledge and share data about community environmental health. Our goal is to increase the ability of underserved communities to identify, redress, remediate, and create awareness and accountability around environmental concerns. Public Lab achieves this by providing online and offline training, education and support, and by focusing on locally-relevant outcomes that emphasize human capacity and understanding. <ref>[http://publiclab.org/about Public Lab] (About)</ref>

'''social media'''

<nowiki>#</nowiki>statsforall on [https://twitter.com/search?q=%23statsforall&src=hash twitter]

=== Quotes ===

"... we stand on the threshold of a world in which the ordinary citizen has recourse to data-gathering, -processing and -visualization tools at least as good as, and often considerably superior to, those which local governmental institutions can bring to bear on a problem."  Adam Greenfield. 

=== Video ===

{{#widget:YouTube|id=QFrqTFRy-LU}}

=== Visions === 

[http://data.okfn.org/ Frictionless Open Data]

| style="background:khaki" |

__TOC__

== News and comment ==

'''2017'''

The 2017 Atlas of Sustainable Development Goals: a new visual guide to data and development, Apr 17 <ref>[http://blogs.worldbank.org/opendata/2017-atlas-sustainable-development-goals-new-visual-guide-data-and-development blogs.worldbank.org]</ref>

'''2016'''

New digital tool can help fight overfishing around the world, Sep 15 <ref>[http://grist.org/science/this-new-digital-tool-could-help-fight-overfishing-around-the-world/ grist.org]</ref>

'''2015'''

Big Data’s Empowerment Problem, September 29 <ref>[http://datatherapy.org/2015/09/29/big-datas-empowerment-problem/ datatherapy.org]</ref>

The world is getting better all the time, in 11 maps and charts, July 13 <ref>[http://www.vox.com/2015/7/13/8908397/11-charts-best-time-in-history Vox]</ref>

'''2014'''

Online Discussion Making data more accessible for society at large, 24 June <ref>[http://wikiprogress.org/index.php/Online_Discussion_Making_data_more_accessible_for_society_at_large Wikiprogress.org]</ref>

Hackers hold the European parliament to account, January 14 <ref>[http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/jan/28/hackers-hold-the-european-parliament-to-account The Guardian]</ref>

'''2013'''

Five ways the world is doing better than you think, Hans Rosling Professor of Global Health, Karolinska Institutet, November 6 <ref>[http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/magazine-24835822 BBC News]</ref>

The quiet data revolution starts here….hopefully! September 9 <ref>[http://www.dataunity.org/2013/12/09/The-Quiet-Revolution.html Data Unity]</ref>

You Can’t Just Hack Your Way to Social Change, March 7 <ref>[https://hbr.org/2013/03/you-cant-just-hack-your-way-to hbr.org]</ref>

'''2012'''

Big Data Capabilities and Citizen Glitching, by Dan McQuillan, November 15 <ref>[http://www.internetartizans.co.uk/bigdatacapability internetartizans.co.uk]</ref>

== See also ==
*[[Apps for sustainability]]
*[[Community involvement]]
*[[Maps for community action]]
*[[Open CO2]]

== External links ==

{{#widget:YouTube|id=XHUuTaZR17o}}

*[http://landmatrix.org/en/ Land Matrix], global and independent land monitoring initiative that promotes transparency and accountability in decisions over land and investment. ''see also'' Land grabbing {{W|Land grabbing}}
*[http://landportal.info/ Landportal], information and knowledge sharing about land issues


'''References'''
<references/>
|}


{{scaendmenu}}
[[Category:Citizens data initiative]]