== ABSTRACT ==
''"Climate 2008 / Klima 2008" will encourage more networking and information exchange among participants and hopefully catalyze new cooperation initiatives and possibly new joint projects. Besides the refereed scientific papers, we will offer you a chance to discuss the problems, barriers, challenges and chances and potentials related to climate and sustainability research. Special discussion fora and chat rooms will cater for direct interaction with the participant scientists. ''

{{TOCright}}

== Introduction ==
[http://www.climate2008.net/ Climate 2008 / Klima 2008] is the world's climate neutral Scientific Climate Conference. Everything is online and [http://www.climate2008.net/?a1=reg registration] is free.

The event will have two tracks: one in [[English]] and one in the [[German]] language. It will be held from the 3rd to the 7th November 2008. Over the course of the event, interested participants may be able to read the papers and exchange ideas with the authors and participant experts.

== Goals ==
The aims of the Conference "Climate 2008/ Klima 2008" are:

* to introduce the latest findings on scientific research on [[climate change]], including elements related to its environmental, social, economic and policy aspects;
* to introduce projects and other initiatives being undertaken in both industrialized and developing countries by universities and scientific institutions, government bodies, NGOs and other stakeholders;
* to discuss the problems, barriers, challenges and chances and potentials related to [[sustainability]] research projects in general in Europe;

Last but not least, the "Climate 2008 / Klima 2008" will encourage more networking and information exchange among participants and hopefully catalyze new cooperation initiatives and possibly new projects.

== Topics ==
* Category 1: Papers on scientific aspects of climate change including on modeling, forecasts and data analysis, generated by interdisciplinary teams.
* Category 2: Papers on social aspects on climate change, including economics, policy-making and social impacts.
* Category 3: Papers on education, communication and training on climate change.
* Category 4: Papers on regional / international initiatives, projects and other efforts involving different groups and stakeholders.

To access all papers go [http://www.climate2008.net/?a1=pap here]

== Contact details ==
Coordination: Prof. Walter Leal Filho (BSc, PhD, DSc, DL)
Scientific staff: Franziska Mannke, Veronika Schulte

Hamburg University of Applied Sciences
Faculty of Life Sciences
Research and Transfer Centre Applications of Life Sciences
Lohbruegger Kirchstraße 65
21033 Hamburg
Germany

Tel.: +49.40.428 75-6324
Fax : +49.40.428 75-6499
E-Mail: ftz-als@ls.haw-hamburg.de
URL: www.haw-hamburg.de/9769.0.html

[[Category:Climate change]]
[[Category:Conferences]]