'''Cloughjordan Ecovillage''' is an [[ecovillage]] of 114 homes and 16 live/work units integrated into the town of Cloughjordan in [[Ireland]]. 

It consists of: 
* 67-acres of land,
* Allotments, farming, woodland, community buildings, and more.{{expand}}
* A [[solar]] and wood-powered community [[heating]] system, 
* The headquarters of the new Cloughjordan Enterprise Centre, managed by the North Tipperary Green Enterprise Park Ltd (NTGEP). Its aim is to provide workspace and services for eco entrepreneurs in North Tipperary.

It is north of the town centre and the entrance forms a new intersection on the Main Street.

The first residents moved into their homes in December 2009. 

[[Vinay Gupta]] works with the community on matters of [[design]] and [[appropriate technology]] and the site includes a number of [[Hexayurts]] (affordable but effective [[shelters]]).

== Notes and references ==

'''References'''

"The rise of the Sharing Economy in my community", [http://www.reconomy.org/the-rise-of-the-sharing-economy-in-my-community/ REconomy] October 10, 2013 (creative commons website)

{{reflist}}

== See also ==

* [[Urban agriculture]]
* [[Community]]
* [[Livable neighborhoods]]
* [[Sustainable cities]]
* [[Affordable housing]]

== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:Cloughjordan]]

== External links ==

* [http://thevillage.ie/ The Village] - official website.
* [http://www.cloughjordan.ie/ecovillage/index.htm Eco-village] - in brief on local website.
* [http://vinay.howtolivewiki.com/blog/hexayurt/hexayurt-h13-at-the-cloughjordan-ecovillage-2536 Hexayurt H13 at the Cloughjordan Ecovillage] - Vinay Gupta's blog.

{{stub}}

[[Category:Ecovillages]]
[[Category:Ireland]]