Plastering Co-Teach "Underbellies"

==Introduction to Plastering the "Underbelly"==

{{#widget:YouTube|id=wy99Z_OKkkE}}

* First desired plaster mixture must be accomplished; a sticky but saturated mixture is ideal. The work surface must be sturdy as well in order to hold plaster while it is in the drying process. 
* Next, the work surface must be damp with water in order for the cement to stick (we utilized a water bottle with a holes in the cap to spray water in a water-gun technique).


== Application of the Plaster==

{{#widget:YouTube|id=SP_RcKW266I}}

* Applying the plaster must be done strategically and in the right way.
* Start with a corner on the damp work surface. This is important because the corner of the work surface provides a stable structure for the cement to stick.  Working from the corner is essential as the plaster mixture will stick best to itself. 
* In one sturdy motion "fling" the plaster at the desired corner the plaster content may not completely stick but some will and that is the vantage point.
* After the "fling" motion scrap only the beginning and end point of the applied wet plaster with the back side of the tools surface to seal.
* It may be that not all of the product will stick in the "fling" motion, but some of it will.  This work task takes a great amount of patience because it involves great failure before success. 

==Perfecting the Recipe==

{{#widget:YouTube|id= JgMPHoPK3pE}}

* Application of the product will lead to essential elements needed to create a successful recipe.  We had our initial mixture but because it was too saturated it was necessary to add more cement to even out the wet to dry ratio.

[[Category:Practivistas Dominicana Program]]