The '''Coalition of the Willing''' is a broad movement that began with an animated short about [[open source]] culture and the role it could play against [[global warming]].

Coalition of the Willing, the film, was directed by Simon Robson and created by twenty animation teams from three continents. This initial coalition numbered 77 people. The film offers a vision of a global coalition of the willing to combat climate change. It proposes a network of interoperative sites, each with a different climate action function. Using the network, participants are able to form cross-functional teams, collaborating in the spirit of open source to create innovate solutions to climate and social justice problems.

The Coalition is now the collaborative effort that is bringing that network into being.

{{TOCright}}

== Watch the video ==

{{#widget:vimeo|id=12772935}}

(See also the long comment thread [http://www.vimeo.com/12772935 on Vimeo].)

== Vision ==

The core of the vision involves three types of website:
* An action network (e.g. [[OneClimate]])
* An innovation platform (e.g. [[MyooCreate]])
* A green knowledge trust (e.g. [[Appropedia]])

== Projects ==

Facilitates sites to collaborate and work on interoperability. 

== Events ==

* [http://movementcamp.org/ MovementCamp 10/10/10]

== See also ==

* [[Online communities]]
* [[Online collaboration]]
* [[What makes an open collaboration]]
* [[NGO collaboration movement]]

== Sites and channels ==

* [http://cotw.cc/wiki/ Main site] - wiki, and portal for the movement.
* [http://cotw.cc/wiki/FAQ COTW.cc: Frequently Asked Questions]
* [http://vimeo.com/12772935 Coalition of the Willing on Vimeo] - video, widely viewed with great comments.
* [http://www.coalitionblog.org/ Blog]
* [http://twitter.com/coalitionfilm Twitter: @coalitionfilm].
* [http://identi.ca/group/cotw Identica group "Coalition of the Willing movement and film"] - for sharing microblog posts
* [http://www.facebook.com/coalitionfilm Facebook]
* [https://secure.bettermeans.com/projects/163 BetterMeans] - open workstream management. Propose a feature or task, or join one. 
* [http://groups.google.com/group/coalition Mailing list]
* IRC: #cotw on Freenode - there's often someone online. You can use the [http://webchat.freenode.net/ web interface]. (If your browser can handle irc links, click irc://freenode/cotw )

== External links ==

* [http://coalitionofthewilling.org.uk/read-the-script/ Read The Script - Coalition of the Willing]. The script of the original animated short film.
* [http://motherjones.com/riff/2010/10/simon-robson-coalition-willing Simon Robson's "Coalition of the Willing"], interview with ''Mother Jones'', Oct 8, 2010
* [http://www.desktopmag.com.au/features/simon-robson-coalition-of-the-willing/ Simon Robson: Coalition of the Willing], interview with ''Desktop'', 21 Oct 2010.
* [http://www.sustainablepractice.org/2010/02/09/coalition-of-the-willing-film-making-collaboration-activism/ Coalition of the Willing: film-making, collaboration, activism] - The Center for Sustainable Practice in the Arts, February 9, 2010 
* [http://www.psfk.com/2010/07/offf-review-coalition-of-the-willings-group-filmmaking.html OFFF Review: Coalition Of The Willing’s Group Filmmaking], July 9, 2010, short interview with Simon Robson.

=== Awards and nominations ===

*  [http://www.hamptons.com/The-Arts/Hamptons-International-Film-Festival/12218/HIFF-Announces-Awards.html Grand Jury Award Winner $5,000 - "Coalition of the Willing"], The Hamptons International Film Festival (HIFF), 2010.

=== Media and blog mentions ===

* [http://osocio.org/message/coalition_of_the_willing/ Coalition of the Willing] blog post at "Osocio, Social Advertising and Non-profit Campaigns," 8-March-2010
* [http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/video/2010/jun/21/copenhagen-climate-change Coalition of the Willing: Post-Copenhagen animation], ''The Guardian'', exclusive preview the day before release, 29 June 2010


[[Category:Collaboration]]
[[Category:Films]]
[[Category:Online collaborations]]
[[Category:International organizations]]
[[Category:Social media]]