In digital photogrammetry,{{w|Photogrammetry}} features of objects are extracted using 3D information from image matching or DSM/DTM data, spectral, textural and other information sources. Pixel-based classification methods, either supervised or unsupervised, are mostly used for land-cover and man-made structure detections. For the classical methods e.g. minimum distance, parallelepiped and maximum likelihood, detailed information can be found in (Lillesand and Kiefer, 1994).

In general, the major difficulty in using aerial images is the complexity and variability of objects and their form, especially
in suburban and densely populated urban regions (Weidner and Foerstner, 1995).

Object identification and extraction from aerial photos can be done by scripting in C, command lines in the Image Analysis toolbox of Matlab or by using commercial softwares (with built functions): IMAGINE, ENVI, Feature Analyst extension of ArcFIS and GRASS.

Supervised classification methods are preferable to
unsupervised ones, because the target of the project is to detect well-defined standard target classes (airport buildings, bare
ground, grass, trees, roads, residential houses, shadows etc.),
present at airport sites. In [http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXVIII/part3/b/pdf/131_XXXVIII-part3B.pdf Demir & Baltsavias 2010]
the training areas were selected
manually using AOI (Area of Interest) tools within the ERDAS
Imagine commercial software (Kloer, 1994). Among the
available image bands for classification (R, G and B from
colour images and NIR, R and G bands from CIR images), only
the bands from CIR images were used due to their better
resolution and the presence of NIR channel (indispensable for
vegetation detection). In addition, new synthetic bands were
generated from the selected channels: a) 3 images from
principal component analysis (PC1, PC2, PC3); b) one image
from NDVI computation using the NIR-R channels and c) one
saturation image (S) obtained by converting the NIR-R-G
channels in the IHS (Intensity, Hue, Saturation) colour space.
The combination NIR-R-PC1-NDVI -S was selected for
classification using separability analysis. The maximum
likelihood classification method was used.



== Reference ==

*[http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXVIII/part3/b/pdf/131_XXXVIII-part3B.pdf Demir & Baltsavias 2010]

[[Category:Maps]]
[[Category:Software]]