
== Outline for Community Currencies Workshops version 2.0 ==

===Story 0: In the beginning: [http://www.appropedia.org/Community_Currencies#Gift_economies_.3D_pure_sharing_communities pure gift] economy=== 
* Bernard Lietaer's [http://www.appropedia.org/Community_Currencies#Yin-Yang_model Yin-Yang spectrum] of currencies with visual aids; mystery of the billion who live on < $2/day 
* Exercise: organize bag of visual aids along the spectrum from pure gift currency all the way to pure yang currency
* Exercise: find local examples of gift economies transformed into yang currency and its side-effects (e.g. childcare, education, healthcare)
* Exercise: design the return of a non-gift currency back to pure gift;  pre-requisites: trust, healthy community

===Story 1: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1g775xxdmz7PWPlz1lqIGmHe-rDv17TWPv2CObPp6BiI Irish Banks Strike 1970]:  undesigned community currency===
* are banks really too big to fail? In what way does life change if they disappear?
* what are banks useful for: settling payments (clearing), providing information (risk assessment), setting incentives (interest rates), pooling resources, transferring resources (import/export from community), i.e. creating and maintaining currency,.
* how can local people do all that without a bank and without any organisation?
* exercise: create cheques ; what makes a cheque acceptable common and/or legal tender?
* exercise: create [http://minutocash.org/sprachen.html minuto vouchers];

===Story 2: Egyptian Ostraca 2000 BC: designed dual currency===
* unmatched 2000 years of wealth and health for ordinary people;
* How do govt's accelerate destruction OR rekindle people's wealth and healthy communities?
** impose taxes only in scarce legal tender (gold, roman coins, dollars) + facilitate compound interest (esp. in no-growth economy)
** allow tax payments in abundant common tender (ostraca, bracteates, local currencies) + facilitate demurrage (negative interest)
** charge [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georgism rent on land] (+roads, patents, copyrights, EM spectrum, natural resources) instead of income, business and sales tax; redistribute to people (Alaska, Norway)
* exercise: create a todo list for designing your regional dual currency system
** decision 1: relationship to national currency? unit of measurement? spectrum from hours to dollar-equivalent
** decision 2: brainstorm catalog's keystone offers and requests (comox dentist story)
** decision 3: brainstorm matchmaker(s) and how to compensate them (eat own dogfood?)
** decision 4: relationship to the internet:  online and/or paper currency, catalog and accounting
** decision 5: succession planning  (in the event of natural death or scaling up)

===Story 3: Medieval Bracteates 1000 AD: the mystery of addiction=== 
* 300 years of accidental wealth and health for ordinary people in Western Europe due to [http://prosperite-et-partage.org/spip.php?article65 Renovatio Monetae]
* exercise: find pros and cons of:  regular jubilees in which all debts are cancelled  vs. steady demurrage
* exercise: suggest policies for dealing with members who are way off balance.  
* exercise: brainstorm ways to increase the speed of circulation

===Story 4: Designed People Money:===
* review local history: co-ops, consumer unions, credit unions, food banks, micro-credit, opensource, crowfunding, sharing, etc 
* review local mutual credit history:  TimeBanks, LETS, CES, Regioweld, Barter Rings, Openmoney, etc
* [http://www.appropedia.org/Community_Currencies#Connection_to_permaculture: design or improve a local currency]: matchmaker + catalog + transparency + dunbar#
* exercise: where does your designed regional currency fit in with the history of people money in your area? What lessons have been learned?

===Story 5: [Optional] Future Money:===
* exercise: what kind of currency is Bitcoin in terms of yin-yang indicators?
* exercise: how to improve a currency using the Block Chain Protocol.  pros + cons [http://www.ingenesist.com/general-info/commuity-organization-on-the-block-chain.html]
* exercise: how to improve a currency using chiralkines. pros + cons [http://chiralkine.com/chiralkine-exchange-game-2/]

===Conclusion: back to pure gift economy===
* in the end, what is money, really?
* exercise: the paradox of "measuring into existence" gift economies
* exercise: what are some metrics that indicate successful currencies (or not)
* end with a conscious potluck
* homework: read the e-books in [http://banks-need-boundaries.net/reading_list.php banks-need-boundaries.net/reading_list.php] especially [http://docs.banks-need-boundaries.net/en/Lietaer__Mystery_of_Money.pdf Mystery of Money]


==If Space allows, setup 4 stations==
===Station 1: Yin Yang===
* lay out the Yin Yang cards 
* put all sorts of currency tokens in the middle
* collectively decide where each currency token belongs in the spectrum and why
* do the DaVinci TaiChi to integrate yin and yang currencies

===Station 2: Cheques / Vouchers===
* tell Irish Cheques story
* pile blank papers (roughly cheque sized) and have participants write out minimum to make it a legal contract
* trade between participants
* pile minuto vouchers and have participants fill them out and get so-signed by 2 guarantors and stamped
* compare and contrast the psychological feel of cheques vs minuto vouchers
* trade between participants in both cheques and minutos (for real)

===Station 3: Ostracas and Bracteates===
* put sample pseudo ostraca and bracteate currency as decoration and visual/touch aid for Egypt and Middle Ages stories
* do a full guided design of a new local regional currency as a group (see above). Assume local government will be involved.
* review indicators of success based on the reports of thousands of experiments throughout the world

===Station 4: Current Community Currencies===
* put out literature and samples from local currencies in your part of the world
* choose one appropriate one to do a guided re-design as a group (see above).
* choose specific indicators of success for this currency based on local stories

[[Category:Local currency]]