== Electronic                                                         Recycling Association ==

Electronic                                                         Recycling Association                                                          is a non-for                                                         profit organization working                                                         with the public and private                                                         sector helping companies                                                         and the public deal with                                                         unwanted electronic items.

See; http://www.era.ca/donations/recycling/

==System 76 Computer Recycling ==

[[System76]] and [[Kids On Computers]] have partnered to bring computers and [[open source software]] to disadvantaged children. Kids On Computers, a non-profit organization, deploys [[Ubuntu]] based computer labs in schools and communities around the world. The organization's first school in Huajuapan de Leon, Mexico, was a resounding success. They now have a dedicated computer teacher and are expecting Internet access very soon. The school went from being one of the poorest schools in town to being the school where all parents want their kids to go!

System76 now offers a "Donate Your Old Computer" option on each product page. By choosing the "Donate Your Old Computer" option, System76 emails you a mailing label to ship your old computer to Kids On Computers. There is a $10 cost which covers a portion of the shipping. System76 covers the remaining shipping cost. Your old computer is tax deductible, and Kids on Computers will provide a donation receipt.

Learn more about the program at http://www.system76.com/recycle

==Where to recycle computers in Canada==
http://sbinfocanada.about.com/od/environmentbiz/a/comprecycling1.htm

[[Category:Recycling]]