{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, South America
|Image=Art-jmwh484023.fig5.jpeg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==

Postpartum hemorrhaging is one of the most severe causes of maternal mortality. PPH (Postpartum hemorrhaging) rates in the developed worlds have severely decreased, but they are still a great threat in developing countries. The World Health Organization suggests that there are over 100,000 deaths due to postpartum hemorrhaging every year. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
A rubber catheter is used to insert a normal condom into the uterus. It is then inflated with 250-300 ml of isotonic saline solution until the bleeding is controlled. To retain the saline, the proximal end of the catheter is folded and tied with thread. Rolled gauze is packed in the vagina to keep the condom from moving (Akhter). 
==Designed by==
*Designed by:
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location:

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
 
==Funding Source==

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
* [http://www.appropedia.org Example External URL]

===Other internally generated reports===
===Externally generated reports===

Akhter, S., M.R. Begum, and J. Kabir, Condom hydrostatic tamponade for massive postpartum hemorrhage. International Journal of Gynecology and Obstetrics, 2005. 90(2): p. 134-135.
===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->