{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality,
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Cephalopelvic disproportion is the primary mechanism of obstructed labor, and essentially is when there is a mismatch between the fetal skull and the woman’s pelvis. Women that typically experience this condition suffer from an improperly developed pelvis due to poor nutrition, young age of motherhood, and/or bone-affecting disease. If left untreated, CPD leaves women vulnerable to postpartum hemorrhage, ruptured uterus, stillbirth, fistula formation, and sepsis.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This device is a simple, 3 query tool  that allows health workers to determine if a woman is at a high or low risk for CPD during the early stages of the pregnancy. The tool is the first device that can predict obstructed labor before it starts. This CPD risk-stratifying tool is low cost and can be used effectively by low-literacy community health workers. 

==Designed by==
*Designed by: University of California, San Francisco
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location: San Francisco, CA USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
 
==Funding Source==
Finalist in Saving Lives at Birth Competition

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===

===Other internally generated reports===
===Externally generated reports===
A novel clinical tool to predict cephalopelvic disproportion (CPD), the leading mechanism of obstructed labor. (2012, August 06). Retrieved October 21, 2013 from [http://savinglivesatbirth.net/summaries/192 here.]
===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->