
'''Cradle-to-cradle design''' (sometimes '''C2C''', '''cradle 2 cradle''', or [[Regenerative design]]) is a [[biomimetic]] philosophy and practice of design. It approaches design and production as a system, using nature's processes as a model. Materials are viewed as nutrients circulating in a metabolism{{w|metabolism}}. 

It is a [[holistic]] [[economic]] and [[industrial]] ramework for efficiency and the elimination of waste.<ref name=hunter>Lovins, L. Hunter (2008). [http://www.worldwatch.org/files/pdf/SOW08_chapter_3.pdf Rethinking production] in ''State of the World 2008'', pp. 38–40.</ref> ''See [[No such thing as waste]].''

Cradle to cradle is applicable to [[industrial design]], [[manufacturing]], [[urban environment]]s, buildings - and more controversially to economics and even [[social systems]].

==History==
The term was coined by [[Walter R. Stahel]] in Switzerland in the 1970s,<ref>[http://www.fastcompany.com/node/1042475/print Green Guru Gone Wrong: William McDonough], ''Fast Company'', November 1, 2008.</ref> applied by the [[Interface]] carpet company in the mid-1990s (working with [[Amory Lovins]], [[Paul Hawken]] and others), and popularized by [[William McDonough]].

==Waste separation==
See [[Waste#Waste separation]]
It should be noted that the cradle-to-cradle envisions far better separation as what's currently done. For example, plastics can then be recycled rather than burned. See [[Plastics_recovery_manual_4]]

==Recycling==
McDonough divides categorises recycling into [[Upcycling]] and [[Downcycling]].
The first describes a method of recyling in which the waste material is made more pure, allowing its use in more products/processes. The latter makes the waste material more contaminated with other materials, making it usable in less products/materials.

==Examples of finished products==
<!--KVDP wrote this section himself at the wikipedia article -->
* Cradle-to-cradle shoes have been made through the [[Nike Considered]] project.<ref>[http://www.greenerdesign.com/feature/2008/06/12/design-and-performance-reconsidered Nike Considered]</ref>
* The [http://www.zoomilife.com/2009/02/02/german-edag-to-unveil-recyclable-electric-concept-car-in-geneva/ Edag light car]
* Rohner Textile AG [[Climatex]]-textile<ref>[http://www.iehn.org/publications.case.rohner.php Rohner textile Climatex as cradle-to-cradle certified textile]</ref>
* [[Biofoam]]; a cradle-to-cradle alternative to [[polystyrene|expanded polystyrene]]<ref>[http://www.biofoam.nl/uploads/Press%20release%20BioFoam%20C2C%202009-12.pdf Biofoam]</ref>
* [[Sewage#Conversion_to_fertiliser|Sewage sludge processing plants]] are facilities that create fertiliser from sewage sludge. This approach is green retrofit for the current (inefficient) system of organic waste disposal; as [[composting toilets]] are a better approach in the long run.{{Citation needed|date=July 2011}}

==See also==
* [[Energy conservation]]: every step of production or resource-transformation will require [[energy]] input even in a cradle-to-cradle system. The source and impact of this energy must be considered.
*[[Appropriate technology]]
*[[Life cycle assessment]]
*[[Sustainability]]

==References==
{{Reflist}}

==External links==
* [http://www.epea.com/english/cradle/principle.htm EPEA: ''The Cradle-to-Cradle Principle'']
* [http://www.mcdonough.com/cradle_to_cradle.htm William McDonough & Michael Braungart (2002): ''Cradle to Cradle''. (book's synopsis)]
* [http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/199810/environment William McDonough & Michael Braungart (1998): 'The Next Industrial Revolution' (article)]
* [http://www.product-life.org/en/cradle-to-cradle Cradle to Cradle] – The emergence of the term

[[Category:Waste management]]
[[Category:Industrial ecology]]
[[Category:Design]]