Creative Commons Attribution license (or CC-BY) is an [[open license]], which allows reuse of a creative work (e.g. writing, images, audio or video) for any purpose provided attribution is given to the original author. The license (in a "human readable form") can be found at [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/ Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported] - different versions exist for different languages and legal regimes. 

Being an open license, reuse may occur for 
* commercial or non-commercial uses
* whether the original author approves or not


It is not a [[copyleft]] license - that is, it does not have a [[share alike clause]] to restrict reuse to compatible licenses. 

The downside of this is that someone could reuse the content, modify it, and then not share - for example using it in copyrighted works, or in a more restrictive open license (CC-BY-SA, GFDL, or FAL) or the "not quite open" CC-BY-NC-SA, any of which would prevent the original user from using the adaptations in their own work. In this sense, the CC-BY license is the most generous of open licenses, but offers the least safeguards for those who care about such things. However, attribution remains a requirement in all cases - this will not be attractive to someone who does not want to share credit at all - so in theory, a license requiring attribution offers as much protection as copyright does against use without attribution. 

In practice, those reusing the work may misunderstand the license - is this an issue, and is it any worse than than the improper use of copyrighted material which happens anyway?{{sp}}

== Marking your work ==

Marking your work is important to ensure it is indexed as [[open content]] by search engines. (E.g. in Google, click advanced search and select usage rights). 

Creative Commons provide a way of doing this - see [[Marking your work as Creative Commons]].

== See Also ==

* [[Open licences]]
* [[An Introduction to Creative Commons]] 
* {{Tl|CC-by-sa-3.0}}
* {{Tl|CC-by-sa-2.0}}

[[Category:Creative Commons]]