{{AAG available project}}

==DETAILED POSITION REQUIREMENTS==
Bachelors or Masters degree in mechanical or electrical engineering with at
least 5-7 years of experience participating in and leading product development
and engineering teams. Experience in developing electrical power solutions
necessary. Experience working with suppliers in low cost countries and
Mandarin language skills a plus. The individual is required to be based in CPG
headquarters in Minneapolis for the first 4-6 months, location thereafter is
flexible.

==WORK DESCRIPTION & KEY RESPONSIBILITIES==
This individual will be responsible for leading the entire technical
development of ultra low cost power solutions from concept development through
product launch. The individual will be a critical part of a new venture to
develop innovative power generation solutions for non electrified populations
in developing countries. The individual will work in an extremely fast paced
and entrepreneurial environment with a focus on results.

This individual will participate in brainstorming ‘clean slate’ solutions
that meet customer requirements and then lead development of these solutions
from concept phase through proof of concept, prototype development and product
launch within a very short time frame. The individual will lead a small team
of engineers, designers and technicians, manage outsourcing of key tasks and
coordinate with component suppliers. The position will require travel to
developing countries to better understand customer context and requirements
and will entail working closely with potential suppliers.

==Specific Tasks are as follows==
* Giving clear technical direction and leadership to the project and manage
team members and outsourcing tasks across multiple time zones
* Concept development
* Development of technical profile and component specifications.
* Technical management of vendors
* System modeling (dynamic stress analysis, energy systems)
* Ensuring cost control through value engineering and design for
manufacturing

==CRITICAL PERFORMANCE SKILLS==
* Excellent knowledge and experience in mechanical and electrical systems
(engines and generators)
* Modeling of electro mechanical systems
* Product development processes
* Must be a self starter, able to work without close supervision and work
lead technical teams
* Demonstrated initiative and passion
* Knowledge of engine performance and durability development
* Knowledge of basics of rotating electromagnetic machines
* Good understanding of control of engine-generator systems
* Knowledge of solid state regulator design, battery charging
* Creative thinker with a ‘can do’ attitude

==Contact==
Ajay Gupta ({{email|ajay.1.gupta|cummins|com}})