{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Type II Diabetes 
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=South America
|Image=Denovo.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Diabetics need to measure their blood glucose levels on a daily basis to effectively monitor their disease, however test strips and glucometers are often too expensive for people in developing world settings.  There is a need for simple, cost-effective monitoring devices in these low-resource areas.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The DeNovo Meter pairs an optical reader and disposable paper strips, which allows for safe, accurate, and inexpensive measuring of blood glucose levels. The locally manufactured colorimetric paper test-strips cost only 2 cents, which is 1/50 of the market price. 

==Designed by==
Designed by:
*3 juniors at MIT; Paul Hlebowitsh, Allen Lin and Deepali Ravel
*3 MIT alumni; Priyanka Jain, Shichao Liang and Yi Wang
Location: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Clinical trials were conducted in two rural areas of Nicaragua.

==Funding Source==
This device was funded through the MIT IDEAS Global Challenge and private funds.

==References==
===Internally generated reports===
DeNovo Glucometer. (n.d.). D-Lab: Development through Dialogue, Design and Dissemination. Link available [http://d-lab.mit.edu/projects/150/denovo-glucometer here].

DeNovo Meter. (n.d.). MIT IDEAS Global Challenge. Link available [http://globalchallenge.mit.edu/teams/view/50 here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->