{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality, Road traffic accidents, Child mortality
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe
|Image=DPA 02.jpg
|Image Caption=Diamedica Portable Anaesthesia (DPA 02 ) System
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
In remote locations, emergency situations and in the aftermath of disasters, medical facilities may be limited or virtually non-existent. Emergency surgical procedures requiring anaesthesia, such as caesarean section, may be necessary in these situations, where power supplies and medical gases are absent or unreliable.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Diamedica Portable Anaesthesia (DPA) Series provides a complete inhalation anaesthesia system in a case, suitable to carry as aircraft hand luggage and robust enough for any field, emergency or remote situation. Designed for field use the DPA series requires no electrical supply or compressed gases to function. It uses ambient air as a carrier gas, although supplementary oxygen can be used if available. Built to withstand extremes of temperature and humidity. Contained in a shockproof, waterproof Peli case. Quick and easy to set up and pack away.

==Designed by==
Diamedica (UK) Ltd, Grange Hill Industrial Estate, Bratton Fleming, Devon EX31 4UH, United Kingdom http://www.diamedica.co.uk

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
In use in mote than 50 countries worldwide, mainly low-income countries, and utilised by emergency humanitarian relief charities.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
* [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21226442]Anaesthesia Intensive Care, 2010, Vo1 38; 1085-1089. The Portable Glostavent ; a new anaesthetic machine for use in difficult situations. R.Tully, R. Eltringham, I.A.Walker, A.J.Bartlett.

World Anaesthesia Newsletter. 2010, Vol 12, No 1. p 27-8 The Diamedica Portable Anaesthetic Machine. Clinical use in Rwanda/Uganda. Isabeau Walker.

* [http://www..greycoatpublishing.co.uk/anaesthesia-international/index.html] Anaesthesia International Spring/Summer 2012; 19-22. The Diamedica portable anaesthetic machine: a comparison with the Triservice Apparatus.  B.P.Huntley, R. Neighbour, R.J.J. Eltringham.

===Other internally generated reports===
The Portable Glostavent - access to safe anaesthesia in remote areas.  R.Eltringham & R.Neighbour, Appropriate Healthcare Technologies 2010
http://www.diamedica.co.uk/english/documents/portable-glostavent.pdf
===Externally generated reports===
===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->