Avoiding '''disease in seedlings''' involves a mixture of hygiene, a fertile [[seed-raising mix]], good [[soil microorganisms]], and watchfulness.

== Hygiene ==

Large scale production of seedlings is where hygiene is the biggest issue. Constant reuse of trays, a very large population of seedlings, and different workers moving between many plants combine to create a high-risk environment for [[plant diseases]]. To avoid outbreaks, often the seedling trays and pots are soaked or washed with a bleach solution, and sometimes even the seed-raising mix is sterilized. 

In [[home gardens]] or smaller [[community gardens]], simpler precautions can be taken:
* Wash seedling trays after use (soaking for a few days swishing around an a quick rinse may be enough). Allow to dry, and store in a dry place.
* Drying in the sun for a few hours may help, on its own (if fairly clean already) or after washing. The sun's [[ultraviolet light]] kills pathogens, and it will help dry them out thoroughly. However, don't leave plastic pots and trays out for days or weeks under the sun, or under a midday tropical sun, as it will damage the plastic.
* If you know there have been outbreaks of disease, take extra care - perhaps use a brush when washing the pots and trays. 
* Ensure a healthy [[potting mix]] with healthy [[soil microorganisms]]. [[Compost tea]] can help.
* See if you can diagnose the disease, with an internet search and/or advice from an experienced gardener. Take a sample into your local nursery, and they may be able to help. With a diagnosis comes suggestions that may easily fix the problem (especially if you already have healthy soil and good growing conditions).

* Check your source of compost - e.g. are you getting is it coming from 

== Avoid damping-off ==

[[Damping off]] of young seedlings is where stems rot at ground level, killing the plants. This is due to some combination of:
* Too much moisture - though this must be very excessive, unless the other risk factors are present.
* A too-sterile [potting mix].<ref>http://permaculture-and-sanity.com/pcarticles/starting-plants-from-seed.php</ref> A potting mix with healthy [[soil microorganisms]] should suppress the opportunistic soil [[fungus]] that causes this disease. 
* Something lacking in the soil. [[Healthy soil, healthy plants]].

Watering with compost tea can discourage [[plant pathogens]] by adding helpful [[microorganisms]].

== Notes and references ==
{{reflist}}

== See also ==

* [[Healthy soil, healthy plants]]
* [[Raising seedlings]]
* [[Transplanting seedlings]]
* [[Biological pest control]]

== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:Plant pathology]]
* [[Wikipedia:Biological pest control]]

== External links ==
{{add links}}

* [] 

{{stub}}

[[Category:Gardening]]
[[Category:Seedlings]]