{{MOST}}

==Background==
There is a method of solar water disinfection (SODIS) that lets water be naturally heated by the sun's rays over a period of about six hours.  When the amount of UV radiation has peaked, then the water is safe to drink.  The water container is a recycled plastic water bottle, which is what makes this method so cheap.  However, this is the least efficient method of solar water disinfection.

==Purpose==
Experimental research on the gaphchromic polymer will allow us to fabricate a polymer that will change color when the bottle has recieved the allowable amount of UV radiation that indicates pasteurization.
==Materials==
*Gaphchromic polymer
*UV retardant (sunscreen)
*UV filter
*Solar simulator
**[http://http://www.appropedia.org/Dr._Hu_solar_simulator_protocol:_MOST Dr. Hu solar sim protocol]

==Procedure==
The solar simulator is approximately 1 kW/sq meter when the sample is 35-40 centimeters away from the front of the lense of the solar simulator.  Combine the gaphchromic polymer with the UV filter and sunscreen, and then leave the sample 35-40 centimeters away from the front of the lense.  Take samples from the gaphchromic polymer every ten minutes for 6 hours.
===Applying Sun Screen Layer===
*Dissolve sunscreen in acetonitrile (ACN)
*Centrifuge to remove TiO<sub>2</sub> Particles
*Collect superatant (This is solution that will be sprayed onto gaphchromic)
*Spray even, thin coat of ACN onto film, solvent dries leaving sunscreen
Suggestion:
*Spray single film w/ gradient of different ACN/sunscreen components and expose to 1,000 W/sq meter to identify concentration.  (need to appropriately attenuate energy/color change)
[[category:MOST methods]]