{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Tuberculosis
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
In low resource settings, tuberculosis is typically diagnosed with sputum microscopy, which currently costs $30 for each test. While this method is low cost, the microscope method requires a culture of sputum, a mixture of saliva and phlegm, and can take up to 8 weeks to grow the culture. During that time, there is a possibility of the patient infecting others with tuberculosis. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Draper device is being designed to be a more cost and time efficient device to diagnose tuberculosis. The device is projected to cost around $1000-$2000 USD and each test is projected to cost $1 USD and it will give immediate feedback. Currently in its development stage, the patient would cough up phlegm into the device and the test would take about 10 minutes. The inventor Jose Trevejo would like to make the future device more similar to a breathalyzer, where the patient would breathe into the device and the sensors in the device would determine if the patient has tuberculosis.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Jose Trevejo – principal scientist, Charles Stark Draper Laboratory Inc., Cambridge, MA
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location:

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
 This device is still in the development stage.

==Funding Source==
Received a grant from World Health Organization
[http://tech.mit.edu/V126/N48/48gateswire.html]

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===

===Other internally generated reports===
===Externally generated reports===
Julie M. Donnelly. (2009). Draper device detects tuberculosis via breathalyzer. Retrieved July 3, 2014 from [http://www.bizjournals.com/boston/blog/mass-high-tech/2009/08/draper-device-detects-tuberculosis.html?page=all]

Julie M. Donnelly. (2009). Draper Lab developing handheld TB screener. Retrieved July 3, 2014 from [http://www.bizjournals.com/boston/stories/2009/08/17/story1.html]

===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->