{{Infobox person
| name = Ernst Friedrich "Fritz" Schumacher
| image = SchumacherSiB200.jpg
| caption = Photograph from cover of ''[[Small Is Beautiful]]'' 1973
| birth_date = {{Birth date|1911|8|16|df=y}}
| birth_place = Bonn, Germany
| death_date = {{Death date and age|1977|9|4|1911|8|16|df=y}}
| death_place = Switzerland
| education = Oxford and Columbia University
| occupation = Economist
| religion = Catholicism
| spouse =
| parents =
}}
'''Ernst Friedrich "Fritz" Schumacher''' (16 August 1911 – 4 September 1977) was an internationally influential [[economic]] thinker, statistician{{w|statistician}} and economist in Britain{{w|United Kingdom}}, serving as Chief Economic Advisor to the UK National Coal Board{{w|National Coal Board}} for two decades.<ref name=SiBbiog>Biography on the inner dustjacket of ''[[Small Is Beautiful]]''</ref> His ideas became popularized in much of the English-speaking world{{w|English-speaking world}} during the 1970s. He is best known for his critique of Western economies and his proposals for human-scale, decentralized and [[appropriate technology|appropriate technologies]]. According to ''The Times Literary Supplement{{w|The Times Literary Supplement}}'', his 1973 book ''[[Small Is Beautiful]]: a study of economics as if people mattered'' is among the 100 most influential books published since World War II{{w|World War II}}.<ref name=TLS100>The Times Literary Supplement, October 6, 1995, p. 39</ref> and was soon translated into many languages, bringing him international fame. Schumacher's basic [[development theories]]{{w|development theories}} have been summed up in the catch-phrases ''[[Intermediate Size]]{{w|Intermediate Size}}'' and ''[[Intermediate Technology]]''. In 1977 he published ''[[A Guide for the Perplexed]]'' as a critique of [[materialism|materialistic]]{{w|materialism}} [[scientism]]{{w|scientism}} and as an exploration of the nature and organization of [[knowledge]]. Together with long-time friends and associates like [[Mansur Hoda|Professor Mansur Hoda]]{{w|Mansur Hoda}}, Schumacher founded the ''Intermediate Technology Development Group'' (now [[Practical Action]]) in 1966.

==Early life==
Schumacher was born in Bonn{{w|Bonn}}, Germany{{w|Germany}} in 1911. His father was a professor of [[political economy]]{{w|political economy}}. The younger Schumacher studied in Bonn and Berlin{{w|Berlin}}, then from 1930 in England{{w|England}} as a Rhodes Scholar{{w|Rhodes Scholarship}} at New College{{w|New College, Oxford}}, Oxford{{w|University of Oxford}},<ref name=SiBbiog/> and later at Columbia University{{w|Columbia University}} in New York City{{w|New York, New York}}, earning a diploma{{w|diploma}} in [[economics]]. He then worked in business, farming and journalism.<ref name=SiBbiog/>

==Economist==
===Protégé of Keynes===
Schumacher moved back to England before World War II{{w|World War II}}, as he had no intention of living under Nazism{{w|Nazism}}. For a period during the War, he was interned{{w|interned}} on an isolated English farm{{w|farm}} as an "enemy alien." In these years, Schumacher captured the attention of [[John Maynard Keynes]]{{w|John Maynard Keynes}} with a paper entitled "Multilateral Clearing" that he had written between sessions working in the fields of the internment camp. Keynes recognised the young German's understanding and abilities, and was able to have Schumacher released from internment. Schumacher helped the British government{{w|British government}} mobilise economically and financially during World War II, and Keynes found a position for him at Oxford University{{w|Oxford University}}.

According to Leopold Kohr's obituary for Schumacher, when his paper "was published in the spring of 1943 in ''Economica'', it caused some embarrassment to Keynes who, instead of arranging for its separate publication, had incorporated the text almost verbatim in his famous "[[Plan for an International Clearing Union]]{{w|Plan for an International Clearing Union}}," which the British government issued as a White Paper{{w|White Paper}} a few weeks later."<ref>Leopold Kohr.[http://web.archive.org/web/20071011020125/http://www.schumacher.org.uk/about_efschumacher.htm "Tribute to E. F. Schumacher"], in Satish Kumar (ed.), ''The Schumacher Lectures'', Harper & Row, 1980.</ref>

===Adviser to the Coal Board===
After the War, Schumacher worked as an economic advisor to, and later Chief Statistician for, the Allied Commission|British Control Commission{{w|Allied Commission}} which was charged with rebuilding the German economy{{w|German economy}}.<ref name=SiBbiog/> From 1950 to 1970 he was Chief Economic Adviser{{w|Chief Economic Adviser}} to the National Coal Board{{w|National Coal Board}},<ref name=SiBbiog/> one of the world's largest organisations, with 800,000 employees. In this position, he argued that [[coal]]{{w|coal}}, not [[petroleum]], should be used to supply the [[energy]] needs of the world's population. He viewed oil as a [[finite resource]]{{w|finite resource}}, fearing its depletion and eventually prohibitive price{{w|price}}, and viewing with alarm the fact that, as Schumacher put it, "the richest and cheapest reserves are located in some of the world's most unstable countries"<ref>Daniel Yergin. ''The Prize'', Simon & Schuster, 1991, p.&nbsp;559.</ref>

His position on the Coal Board was often mentioned later by those introducing Schumacher or his ideas. It is generally thought that his farsighted planning contributed to Britain's post-war economic recovery. Schumacher predicted the rise of OPEC{{w|OPEC}} and many of the problems of [[nuclear power]].

===Thinking outside the box===
In 1955 Schumacher travelled to Burma{{w|Burma}} as an economic consultant. While there, he developed the set of principles he called "[[Buddhist economics]]{{w|Buddhist economics}}," based on the belief that individuals needed good work for proper [[human development]]{{w|human development}}. He also proclaimed that "production from local resources for local needs is the most rational way of economic life." He traveled throughout many [[Third World]]{{w|Third World}} countries, encouraging local governments to create [[self-reliant economy|self-reliant economies]]{{w|self-reliant economy}}. Schumacher's experience led him to become a pioneer of what is now called [[appropriate technology]]: [[user-friendly]]{{w|user-friendly}} and [[ecologically]]{{w|ecologically}} suitable technology applicable to the scale of the [[community]]. He founded the [[Intermediate Technology Development Group]] (now [[Practical Action]]) in 1966. His theories of development have been summed up for many in catch phrases like "[[intermediate size]]{{w|intermediate size}}," and "[[intermediate technology]]." He was a trustee{{w|trustee}} of Scott Bader Commonwealth{{w|Scott Bader Commonwealth}} and in 1970 the president of the [[Soil Association]]{{w|Soil Association}}.

E F Schumacher was influenced by [[Mahatma Gandhi]], while delivering the Gandhi Memorial Lecture at the Gandhian Institute of Studies at Varanasi (India) in 1973, described Gandhi as the greatest ‘'''People’s Economist'''.’. Schumacher identified Gandhi as the people’s economist whose economic thinking was compatible with spirituality as opposed to materialism.<ref>{{cite web |url=http://gandhifoundation.org/2008/09/07/surur-hoda-1928-2003/ Gandhi Foundation |title=Surur Hoda (1928-2003) |publisher=Gandhi Foundation|date=7 September 2008}}</ref>

By the end of his life, it can be said that Schumacher's personal development had led him very far afield from the ideas of John Maynard Keynes. Keynes, second only to [[Adam Smith]]{{w|Adam Smith}}, is widely regarded as the most influential modern [[Orthodoxy|orthodox]]{{w|Orthodoxy}} economist. In contrast, Schumacher is one of the most widely recognized [[heterodox]]{{w|heterodox}} economists.

==Schumacher as writer==
Schumacher wrote on economics for London's ''The Times{{w|The Times}}'' and became one of the paper's chief editorial writers]]{{w|editorial board}}. At this post he was assigned the somewhat uncomfortable task of compiling information for the obituary of John Keynes many years before the event of his death. He also wrote for ''The Economist{{w|The Economist}}'' and ''Resurgence{{w|Resurgence}}''. He served as adviser to the India Planning Commission{{w|India Planning Commission}}, as well as to the governments of Zambia{{w|Zambia}} and Burma{{w|Burma}} — an experience that led to his much-read essay on "Buddhist Economics."

The 1973 publication of ''[[Small is Beautiful]]: a study of economics as if people mattered'', a collection of essays{{w|essay}}, brought his ideas to a wider audience. One of his main arguments in [[Small is Beautiful]] is that we cannot consider the problem of technological production solved if it requires that we recklessly erode our finite natural capital and deprive future generations of its benefits. Schumacher's work coincided with the growth of [[ecology|ecological]]{{w|ecology}} concerns and with the birth of [[environmentalism]]{{w|environmentalism}} and he became a hero to many in the [[environmental movement]]{{w|environmental movement}} and [[community movement]]{{w|community movement}}.

In 1976, he received the prestigious award Prix Européen de l'Essai Charles Veillon for ''[[Small is Beautiful]]''

His 1977 work ''[[A Guide for the Perplexed]]'' is both a critique of [[materialism|materialistic]]{{w|materialism}} [[scientism]]{{w|scientism}} and an exploration of the nature and organization of [[knowledge]].

==Later life and posthumous recognition==
As a young man, Schumacher was a dedicated atheist, but his later rejection of materialist, capitalist, agnostic modernity was paralleled by a growing fascination with religion.<ref>Diana Schumacher. [http://www.schumacher.org.uk/about_EFS.php "Who was Fritz Schumacher?"]</ref><ref>Julia Forster. [http://resurgence.opendemocracy.net/index.php/Schumacher,_E.F. "E. F. Schumacher"]</ref> His interest in Buddhism has been noted. However, from the late 1950s on, Catholicism{{w|Roman Catholicism}} heavily influenced his thought. He noted the similarities between his own economic views and the teaching of papal encyclicals on socio-economic issues, from Leo XIII{{w|Leo XIII}}'s "[[Rerum Novarum]]{{w|Rerum Novarum}}" to Pope John XXIII{{w|Pope John XXIII}}'s "[[Mater et Magistra]]{{w|Mater et Magistra}}", as well as with the [[distributism]]{{w|distributism}} supported by the Catholic thinkers G. K. Chesterton{{w|G. K. Chesterton}}, Hilaire Belloc{{w|Hilaire Belloc}} and Vincent McNabb{{w|Vincent McNabb}}. Philosophically, he absorbed much of [[Thomism]]{{w|Thomism}}, which provided an objective system in contrast to what he saw as the self-centered [[subjectivism]]{{w|subjectivism}} and [[relativism]]{{w|relativism}} of modern philosophy and society.<ref>Charles Fager. [http://www.religion-online.org/showarticle.asp?title=1151 "Small Is Beautiful, and So Is Rome: The Surprising Faith of E. F. Schumacher"], ''Christian Century'', April 6, 1967.</ref> He also was greatly interested in the tradition of [[Christian mysticism]]{{w|Christian mysticism}}, reading deeply such writers as St. Teresa of Avila{{w|Teresa of Avila}} and Thomas Merton{{w|Thomas Merton}}. These were all interests that he shared with his friend, the Catholic writer Christopher Derrick{{w|Christopher Derrick}}. In 1971, he converted to Catholicism.

Schumacher gave interviews and published articles for a wide readership in his later years. He also pursued one of the loves of his life: [[gardening]]. He died during a lecture tour{{w|lecture tour}} of a heart attack{{w|myocardial infarction}} on 4 September 1977, in Switzerland]{w|Switzerland}}.

The [[Schumacher Circle]]{{w|Schumacher Circle}} organisations were founded in his memory. They include the [[Schumacher College]]{{w|Schumacher College}} in Totnes{{w|Totnes}}, Devon{{w|Devon}}, the [[New Economics Institute]]{{w|New Economics Institute}} (formerly called the [[E. F. Schumacher Society]]{{w|E. F. Schumacher Society}}) founded in New England{{w|New England}}, the [[Soil Association]]{{w|Soil Association}} and the [[New Economics Foundation]]{{w|New Economics Foundation}} in the UK.

Schumacher's personal collection of books and archives are currently held by the [[New Economics Institute]]{{w|New Economics Institute}} library in Great Barrington, Massachusetts{{w|Great Barrington, Massachusetts}}. The New Economics Institute continues the work of E. F. Schumacher by maintaining a research library, organizing lectures and seminars, publishing papers, developing model economic programs, and providing technical assistance to groups all for the purpose of linking people, land, and community to build strong, diverse local economies.

==Schumacher's Teachings==

===Homo viator===
“It is when we come to politics,” Schumacher insisted, “that we can no longer postpone or avoid the question regarding man's ultimate aim and purpose.” If one believes in God one will pursue politics “mindful of the eternal destiny of man and of the truths of the Gospel”. However, if one believes “that there are no higher obligations”, it becomes impossible to resist the appeal of Machiavellianism “politics as the art of gaining and maintaining power so that you and your friends can order the world as they like it”(2). Once one accepted that man was created by God with a designated purpose, politics, economics and art had value only for the end of helping man reach a higher plane of existence, which should be his goal (2).

By the end of the fifties Schumacher had reached the conclusion that man was homo viator (a pilgrim on a journey). He believed that it was the failure to recognize this fact which led to society's ills (2).

===Three Culprits===
For Schumacher there were three main culprits, that had all been corrosive agents in a world which had lost sight of individual responsibility and a world bound to the parameters of realism and science. These were Freud, Marx and Einstein. Freud had made perception subjective through his teaching that perception was subject to the complex interplay of the ego and the id, literally rendering it self-centered. This led inevitably to a change of attitude in human relations where self-fulfillment took precedence over the needs of others. Marx, by seeking a scapegoat in the bourgeoisie, had replaced personal responsibility with a hatred for others. His fault lay in his blaming of others for problems with society. Einstein had supposedly undermined belief in absolutes with his insistence on the relativity of everything. The application of 'relativity' in all other fields including morality, led to rejection of moral codes and responsibility (2). (Of course, Einstein's actual [[theory of relativity]]{{w|theory of relativity}} was strictly limited to physics, and its correctness has been thoroughly verified by experiment.)

===Three Planes of Thought===
In May 1957, in a talk he called 'The Insufficiency of Liberalism' he gave an exposition of what he termed the “three stages of development”. The first great leap, he said, was made when man moved from stage one of primitive religion to stage two of scientific realism. This is the stage most modern men tend to be in. A few move to the third stage in which one can find, in the lapses and deficiencies in science and realism, that there is something beyond fact and science. He called this stage three. The problem, he explained, was that stage one and stage three appear to be exactly the same to people stuck in stage two. Consequently, those in stage three are seen as having had some sort of a relapse into childish nonsense. Only those in stage three can understand the differences between the three stages and between stage one and stage three in particular.

===Labour===
In 1955 Schumacher traveled to Burma as an economic consultant. While there, he developed the principles of what he called "Buddhist economics", based on the belief that good work was essential for proper human development and that "production from local resources for local needs is the most rational way of economic life." (1)

The following four quotes from Schumacher are said to exemplify his ideas:

# “From the point of view of the employer, it [work] is in any case simply an item of cost, to be reduced to a minimum if it cannot be eliminated altogether, say, by automation. From the point of view of the workman, it is a 'disutility'; to work is to make a sacrifice of one's leisure and comfort, and wages are a kind of compensation for the sacrifice.”(2)
# “From a Buddhist point of view, this is standing the truth on its head by considering goods as more important than people and consumption as more important than creative activity. It means shifting the emphasis from the worker to the product of work, that is, from the human to the sub-human, surrender to the forces of evil.”(2)
# The Buddhist view, “takes the function of work to be at least threefold”: “to give a man a chance to utilize and develop his faculties; to enable him to overcome his egocentredness by joining with other people in a common task; and to bring forth the goods and services needed for a becoming existence.”(2)
# “to organize work in such a manner that it becomes meaningless, boring, stultifying, or nerve-racking for the worker would be little short of criminal; it would indicate a greater concern with goods than with people, an evil lack of compassion and a soul-destroying degree of attachment to the most primitive side of this worldly existence”.(2)

===Appropriate technology===
Interwoven with his ideas of labor were Schumacher's ideas about what would later be called [[appropriate technology]]. His two basic development theories were ''Intermediate Size'', and ''Intermediate Technology''.

To impose Intermediate Size on a national economy Schumacher suggested superimposing on large-area states a [[canton (country subdivision)|cantonal]]{{w|canton (country subdivision)}} structure of modest size so that vast industrial concentration (with all this entails in imbalance, ineptitude, and [[diseconomies of scale]]{{w|diseconomies of scale}}) becomes not only unnecessary but also impractical and inefficient. (1)

Intermediate Technology would be a byproduct of the cantonal structure. Once a development district is 'appropriately' reduced, it becomes possible to fulfill a society's material requirements by means of less expensive and simpler equipment than the costly, computerized, labor-saving machinery necessary for satisfying the massive appetite for the remedial transport and integration commodities without which a very large modern market community cannot exist. Though this means a reduction in productivity, it does not mean a reduction in even the highest humanely attainable standard of living. (1)

Putting it differently, the reduced efficiency of intermediate technology provides the same amount of goods, but at a higher cost in labor. However, since higher labor cost and longer working hours means simply that the desired level of production can be achieved only by full rather than partial employment of the available labor force, they represent socially no additional cost at all. They are, in fact, a benefit. It is unemployment, defined by Schumacher as the degrading saving of manpower through the inappropriate use of advanced machinery, which is the prohibitive cost which no society can afford to pay in the long run. Furthermore the unemployment caused by excessive technological progress will inevitably lead to the revolt of the unemployed (1).

==See also==
<!--{{Portal|Sustainable development}}-->
* [[E. F. Schumacher on appropriate technology]] (videos of a talk by Schumacher)
* [[Distributism]]{{w|Distributism}}
* [[Grameen Bank]]
* [[John Papworth]]{{w|John Papworth}}
* [[Leopold Kohr]]{{w|Leopold Kohr}}
* [[Kirkpatrick Sale]]{{w|Kirkpatrick Sale}}
* [[Microcredit]]
* [[Social entrepreneurship]]
* [[Sustainable development]]
* [[Worldwatch Institute]]{{w|Worldwatch Institute}}

==References==
{{Reflist}}

==Selected bibliography==
* ''[[Small Is Beautiful]]: A Study of Economics As If People Mattered'' (1973, ISBN 0-06-131778-0); a 25th anniversary edition was published (ISBN 0-88179-169-5)
* ''[[A Guide for the Perplexed]]'' (1977, ISBN 0-224-01496-X; still in paperback, ISBN 0-06-090611-1)
* ''This I Believe and Other Essays'' (1977; reissued, ISBN 1-870098-66-8)
* ''Good Work'' (1979, ISBN 0-06-013857-2)

==Further reading==
===Books about E. F. Schumacher===
* Kirk, Geoffrey, ed. ''Schumacher on Energy'' (London: Sphere Books, 1983)
* Wood, Barbara, [http://www.smallisbeautiful.org/Wood%20bio/index.html ''E.F. Schumacher: His Life and Thought''] (New York: Harper & Row, 1984)
* Etherden, Peter, [http://ownership.blog.co.uk/2009/03/20/schumacher-enigma-revisited-5794529/ "The Schumacher Enigma"], ''Fourth World Review'', 1999
* Pearce, Joseph, ''Small is Still Beautiful'', (Wilmington: ISI Books, 2006)

===External links===
* [http://www.smallisbeautiful.org The E.F. Schumacher Society] in Great Barrington, Massachusetts, which houses his personal library and archives.
* [http://journeytoforever.org/media/s/schumacher.jpg Schumacher pic].
* [http://www.practicalaction.org/ Intermediate Technology Development Group / Practical Action]
* [http://www.schumacher.org.uk About E. F. Schumacher, from British Schumacher Society website]
* [http://www.schumacherinstitute.org.uk/ The Schumacher Institute for Sustainable Systems] is an independent research organisation working to continue Schumacher's legacy.
* [http://www.smallisbeautiful.org/buddhist_economics.html Essay on Buddhist Economics]
* [http://www.godspy.com/issues/The-Education-and-Catholic-Conversion-of-E-F-Schumacher-by-Joseph-Pearce.cfm The Education of E. F. Schumacher]
* [http://www.godspy.com/reviews/EF-Schumacher-Small-is-Still-Beautiful-A-Godspy-Interview-with-Joseph-Pearce-by-Angelo-Matera.cfm Small is Still Beautiful an interview with Joseph Pearce]
* [http://www.newciv.org/nl/newslog.php/_v97/__show_article/_a000097-000098.htm Economics as if People Mattered, E. F. Schumacher observed ]
* [http://www.wie.org/j11/schumcapra.asp?page=1 Dialogue with E.F Schumacher and Fritjof Capra]
* [http://www.loka.org/alerts/loka_alert_8.6.htm E.F. Schumacher: A Retrospect and Reflection After September 11, 2001]
* [http://www.manasjournal.org/pdf_library/VolumeXXIX_1976/XXIX-20.pdf Interview with E. F. Schumacher published in Manas Journal, May 19, 1976]
* [http://www.earthhealing.info/fifty.htm Fifty Possible Ways to Challenge Over-Commercialism]
* [http://www.earthhealing.info/beyond.pdf Beyond Simplicity: Tough Issues For A New Era] by Albert J. Fritsch, SJ, PhD
* [http://http.dvlabs.com/radio4all/ug/ug287-hour1mix.mp3 Introduction to Schumacher (MP3)]
* [http://www.nfb.ca/film/small_is_beautiful/ Watch the documentary ''Small Is Beautiful: Impressions of Fritz Schumacher'']


{{attrib wikipedia|E. F. Schumacher}}

{{copyedit|Adapt from the Wikipedia article reproduced here, to be more appropriate to Appropedia. Also find suitable local links where possible, instead of the "w" links to Wikipedia (or just remove if there's no local article and it's not of particular importance). Find suitable local categories, rather than Wikipedia category names. Remove Wikipedia templates that aren't used here.}}

{{Persondata <!-- Metadata: see [[Wikipedia:Persondata]]. -->
| NAME = Schumacher, Ernst Friedrich
| ALTERNATIVE NAMES = 
| SHORT DESCRIPTION = 
| DATE OF BIRTH = 16 August 1911
| PLACE OF BIRTH = [[Bonn]]{{w|Bonn}}, [[Germany]]{{w|Germany}}
| DATE OF DEATH = 4 September 1977
| PLACE OF DEATH = [[Switzerland]]{{w|Switzerland}}
}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Schumacher, Ernst Friedrich}}

[[Category:Appropriate technology advocates]]
[[Category:Development specialists]]
[[Category:Environmental economics]]
[[Category:Green thinkers]]
[[Category:Heterodox economists]]
[[Category:Sustainability advocates]]
[[Category:People]]