'''Easy-to-grow useful plants''' are an important part of [[lazy gardening]], making it easy for people lacking the time, skill or interest in gardening to still reap the benefits of personal food growing.

These can be cultivated with or without land. For people living in an apartment, a pot or two of [[herb]]s can add to their experience of eating with very little effort, and a [[fruit vine]] can grow up a makeshift [[trellis]], while those with more space can grow a wider variety of food.

== Food and more ==
In most cases, "useful plants" are food plants. However, some plants may be useful for 

One of the [[principles of permaculture]] is that every plant should have [[multi-purpose plant|multiple uses]] (at least 3? Is this the same as "Stacking Functions"?{{fact}})

The uses provided by plants may not providing substantial energy in food (such as bananas, or potatoes) - they may provide other functions, like:
* [[herbs]], which add a lot of flavor and pleasure to the experience of eating, make simple and healthy food taste better (which can save money through buying more simple, basic foods rather than pre-prepared flavored foods), are best used fresh from the garden, and are best available on a whim, rather than having to plan and buy ahead.
* insect repellents: some herbs also repel insects.
* shade: under a fruit trees can be a great place to sit, especially in summer.
* [[companion plant]]s: This is the belief/principle that certain plants grow better together.
* enriching the soil, through [[nitrogen fixation]], organic matter or encouraging [[soil organisms]]

== How easy, exactly? ==
There are many plants which can simply be:
* be planted as [[seeds]], or as seedlings from a community or commercial [[seedling nursery]] or a community seedling sharing program.<ref>I don't think I've ever heard of community or commercial [[seedling nursery]] or community seedling sharing programs, but it seems like a good idea to me, as part of promoting urban agriculture in a community - especially the sharing programs. --~~~~</ref>

* [[mulch]]ed
* watered occasionally or not at all
* harvested

Thus they will be resistant to most serious pests and diseases as long as they have their basic needs met.

== Examples ==
The best examples will vary according to climate, but some suggestions include:
* Many of the easiest plants to grow are in the [[gourd]] family:
** [[Chayote]] fruit, shoots, young leaves and tubers; tropical and warm temperate climates.
** [[Winter squash]]/[[pumpkins]], fruit, (leaves and shoots of some or all species? Are the flowers edible?); tropical{{fact}} and temperate climates.
** [[Summer squash]] (e.g. [[zucchinis]], [[button squash]]); fruit and flowers; temperate.
** [[Watermelons]]
* [[Fruit trees]] - some are very hardy and require very little maintenance after planting:
** [[Mangoes]], fruit; tropical (with lots of moisture around the flowering season{{fact}} but not in the late fruiting season).
* [[Vines]] - these can be allowed to climb, and can require little maintenance.
** [[Grapes]], fruit & leaves; temperate climates.
** [[Passionfruit]] fruit (& are the flowers edible?); tropical and temperate.
** [[Tamarillo]], fruit, temperate.<ref>I've heard they're easy, but don't know. Note that these comments can be removed once the information has been improved/corrected. --~~~</ref>


For more helpful information, specific pages need to be developed on easy-to-grow plants by climatic zone & rainfall patters.

== See also ==
* [[Lazy gardening]]
* [[Permanent raised bed]]
* [[Permaculture]]

== Notes ==
<small><references/></small>

{{stub}}

[[Category:Lazy gardening]]
[[Category:Elements]]
[[Category:Urban agriculture]]