A '''thrivable city''' means a city which is not only [[sustainable]], but which has:
* A minimal negative environmental impact, or even a positive impact. 
* A high quality of life, peaceful, lush and pleasant, with an active community.

[[Thrivability]] is a new word, used to capture this idea of sustainability and positive impact not through sacrifice, but at the same time as living larger, more [[abundant]]ly.

How do we achieve this, a [[sustainable city]] with a wonderful quality of life?

* [[Transit-oriented development]] with an efficient, comfortable [[public transport]] system.
* [[Cycle and walking paths]].
* [[Walkable neighborhoods]] - every house within about five minutes walk of a local center and transport node.
* [[Congestion charges]] - putting a price on driving in the city center and other congested locations, but only when attractive alternatives exist.
* Ban burning of rubbish within the city, whether by individuals or councils, whether in piles or high-technology rubbish incinerators.
* Restrict the types of vehicle fuel sold within the city, as many deaths are caused by respiratory illnesses exacerbated by pollution.<ref>An Australian study claims more die from this than from car accidents.{{fact}}</ref> [[Biodiesel]] is much better for air quality than regular diesel, [[Biogas]], [[LPG]] and [[LNG]] are better still, but nothing is as good as [[electric vehicles]] (hopefully charged using [[renewable energy]]).
* Grid pattern narrow streets, to encourage low speeds but short distances for car travel.
* Chicanes and similar traffic calming devices rather than speed bumps. (Slow down cars, rather than punishing them.
* [[High density housing]] at transport nodes, surrounded by [[medium density]], all in a [[mixed-use]] pattern. This minimizes [[travel distance]] and time, reducing [[energy]] use, increasing the number of trips for social reasons, and thus increasing [[social capital]].
* Encourage the creation of additional small units, to increase the supply of affordable housing.
* [[Public open space]], including playgrounds, interspersed through the city.
* A near-natural [[water cycle]], with [[rainwater harvesting]], and [[groundwater recharge]] through [[gardens]], [[swales]], [[rain gardens]] and [[permeable pavements]] to mimic the natural ability of undeveloped land to absorb rain and runoff.
* Local food production, through  [[community gardens]] and a community support program to help residents with low-maintenance food gardens (see [[lazy gardening]]).
* Restrictions on the types of packaging that can be used, e.g. only [[compostable wrapping]] for food products, to enable better processing of waste.
* Trees shade the streets and greenery covers the buildings, keeping temperatures low. (This assumes a city where heat is a problem. Deciduous trees let sun through, great for regions with distinct seasons. But what's the best thing for cold climates?{{expand}}{sp}})
* Building layout regulations such as building alignment/setback are made not on the basis of older US-centric suburban aesthetics, but mainly on the basis of practicality and efficient use of space. (Note that the most in-demand residential areas often follow this pattern of houses built close to the sidewalk.)

==Notes==
<small><references/></small>

{{stub}}

== See also ==

* [[New Urbanism]]

[[Category:Urban planning]]
[[Category:Sustainablity]]
[[Category:Sustainable cities]]