== Energy Star ==
'''[http://www.energystar.gov/ ENERGY STAR]''' is a joint program of the [[U.S. Environmental Protection Agency]] and the [[U.S. Department of Energy]] to help save money and protect the environment through '''energy efficient products and practices.
'''

== For the Home ==
Energy efficient choices can save families about a third on their energy bill with similar savings of [[greenhouse gas emissions]], without sacrificing features, style or comfort. ENERGY STAR helps you make the energy efficient choice. For the home go [http://www.energystar.gov/index.cfm?c=home_improvement.hm_improvement_index here]

* If looking for new [http://www.energystar.gov/index.cfm?fuseaction=find_a_product. household products], look for ones that have earned the ENERGY STAR. They meet strict [[energy efficiency]] guidelines set by the EPA and US Department of Energy.
* If looking for a [http://www.energystar.gov/index.cfm?c=new_homes.hm_index new home], look for one that has earned the ENERGY STAR rating.
* If looking to make larger improvements to your home, EPA offers tools and resources to help you plan and undertake projects to reduce your energy bills and improve home comfort.

== For Business ==
Because a strategic approach to [[energy management]] can produce twice the savings — for the bottom line and the environment — as typical approaches, EPA’s ENERGY STAR partnership offers a proven energy management strategy that helps in measuring current energy performance, setting goals, tracking savings, and rewarding improvements.

EPA provides an innovative energy performance rating system which businesses have already used for more than 80,000 buildings across the country. EPA also recognizes top performing buildings with the ENERGY STAR.

== Sources and Citations ==
[http://www.energystar.gov/ Official Energy Star web site]
* [http://www.energystar.gov.au/ Energy Star Australia]
* [http://oee.nrcan.gc.ca/energystar/index.html?text=N&printview=N/ Energy Star Canada]
* [http://www.eu-energystar.org/calculator.htm Energy Consumption Calculator]
* [http://ecolabelling.org/ecolabel/energy-star/ Energy Star entry at Ecolabelling.org]
* [http://www.homeconstructionimprovement.com/2007/10/clean-green-and-money-in-your-pocket.html Energy Efficiency] Breakdown of the costs, savings, and energy efficiency of Energy Star appliances
* [http://www.energystar.gov/index.cfm?fuseaction=estar_partner_list.showPartnerResults&s_code=ALL&partner_type_id=SP&cntry_code=ALL&award_search=N&award_category=ALL&award_year=ALL&resultsperpage=20&current_sort_column=NAME&current_sort_order=ASC&layout=default&letter=M Energy Star qualified Energy Service & Product Providers list] 
* [http://www.mrelectricseattle.com Energy Star qualified Service Provider example]
* [http://www.energystar.org.tw/pdf/Computer_Spec_Final.pdf Energy Star 4.0 Computer specification]

== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:Energy star]]

[[Category:Energy]]
[[Category:Energy conservation]]
[[Category:Energy efficiency]]