{{Lang|[[Energie aus Abwasser|Deutsch]] - [[Energy from wastewater|English]]}}
==Wastewater in an energy resource==
The [[wastewater treatment|treatment]] of [[wastewater]] using conventional methods consumes significant amounts of [[energy]].<ref>According to one estimate, "In the USA... 5% of electricity we produce is used to  		treat water and wastewater." - from [http://www.engr.psu.edu/ce/enve/mfc-Logan_files/mfc-Logan.htm Microbial Fuel Cells], B.E. Logan, 2005. Does this include the cost of contructing colleciton and treatment facilities, including the [[embedded energy]]{{w|embedded energy}} in the materials?{{sp}}</ref>

However, wastewater actually contains biochemical energy, which is normally thrown away, or worse, discarded as pollution. [[Biochemical oxygen demand]]{{w|Biochemical oxygen demand}} is a measure of pollution, but also indicates the energy content of the wastewater.

==Methods of extracting energy==
[[Biogas]] is one method with the potential for use as an [[appropriate technology]]. 

Various [[waste-to-energy]]{{w|Waste-to-energy}} technologies including [[incineration]]{{w|Incineration}} can be used to dispose of solid waste. This includes [[sludge drying|dried sewage sludge]].{{w|Sewage sludge treatment#Sludge disposal}}

[[Microbial fuel cells]]{{w|Microbial fuel cells}} are a completely new method of energy recovery, and are currently under development. They could be used to produce electricity; also they could produce hydrogen - the BioElectrochemically Assisted Microbial Reactor (BEAMR) method is claimed to yields four times the hydrogen of fermentation alone.<ref>[http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/industry/1762911.html?page=8 2005 Popular Mechanics Breakthrough Awards] (published in the November 2005 issue). According to [http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/industry/4225816.html?page=3 this update] (Nov 2007) efficiency has reached 82%. For more information, see [http://www.engr.psu.edu/ce/enve/mfc-Logan_files/mfc-Logan.htm Microbial Fuel Cells], by Bruce Logan of [[Penn State University]] (2005), who won a 2005 Popular Mechanics Breakthrough Award.[http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/industry/1762911.html?page=8]</ref>

==Footnotes==
<references/>


[[Category:Wastewater]]
[[Category:Energy]]
[[Category:Industrial ecology]]