This article deals around the production of [[ethanol]].

==Fermentation==
See [[Ethanol-based hand sanitizer]]
+ include fermentation from other crops (ie grain, ...)

==Distillation==

To make ethanol, commercial devices are available<ref>http://www.milehidistilling.com/mr-distiller/ "Mr. Distiller" priced at $230]</ref>, ie Mr. Distiller which is a countertop appliance about the size of a large coffee machine</ref>, but diy-still designs have now also become available via the internet. <ref>[http://homedistiller.org/photos-ns.htm Photos of diy stills]</ref> <ref>[http://www.instructables.com/id/How-to-make-a-still/ Instructables still-designs]</ref><ref>[http://journeytoforever.org/ethanol_still.html Jorneytoforever still]</ref> Popular diy stills include pot stills, and [[reflux]] stills. The latter may be equipped with a long fractionating column for optimal efficiency. Another subtype is the crockpot-type still which uses ice for cooling , and stills that use either [[worm]]s or jacketed cores as condensors. <ref>[http://www.homedistiller.org/designs.htm#reflux_plan Popular diy home stills and practical building]</ref>

A DIY reflux still with fractionating column (instant 94% ethanol) can be made with metal tubing and a pot still. See [http://www.geocities.com/hankmcintyre/Moonshine.html this website] 

The "two dollar crockpot still" is a cheap diy-still made out of a crock pot, a piece of 1/4 inch copper tubing and a plastic milk jug filled with ice.<ref>[http://www.happymountain.net/moonshine%20still.html Crockpot still]</ref>

Note that a reboiler may or may not be present in the design. Also note that some stills are heated using wood<ref>[http://journeytoforever.org/biofuel_library/ethanol_motherearth/meCh7.html Wood-fired still]</ref> However, as ethanol tends to be best distilled at 77°C-78°C<ref>[http://homedistiller.org/image/mini_explained.jpg Mini still explained: making the mash]</ref>, the use of gas or electricity may be preferred as it allows more accurate temperature control.

==Applications==
Small scale distillation is practiced by many for the purpose of making [[moonshine]]<ref>[http://chemistry.about.com/od/chemistryhowtoguide/ht/ethanol.htm Moonshining]</ref><ref>[http://www.geocities.com/hankmcintyre/Moonshine.html Moonshining and diy stills]</ref>, although sometimes it is also practiced for creating (bio)fuel <ref>[http://www.rebelwolf.com/essn/ESSN-Oct2005.pdf Biofuel-still design]</ref>.

For AT-purposes, ethanol is also useful as it can be used in healthcare: this in the intrest of disinfection (see [[Ethanol-based hand sanitizer]]) and as an ingredient in making [[herbal medicine|tinctures]]. Finally, ethanol is also a good preservative, hence increasing the shelf life of certain foods/beverages.

==See also==
* [[Alcohol fuels]]
* [[Ethanol-based hand sanitizer]]
* [[Amal%27s_ethanol_still]]
* [[Nixon-Stone still]]: a popular reflux still for home use <ref>[http://homedistiller.org/equip/photos-ns Nixon-Stone stills]</ref><ref>[http://moonshine-still.com/table-of-contents/ Moonshine Still: another Nixon-Stone still]</ref>
* [[Adam’s still]]: a historically important reflux still<ref>[http://moonshine-still.com/reflux-stills/ Historical stills]</ref>
* [[Corty’s still]]: a historically important reflux still<ref>[http://moonshine-still.com/reflux-stills/ Historical stills]</ref>
* [[Cellier-Blumenthal still]]: a historically important reflux still<ref>[http://moonshine-still.com/reflux-stills/ Historical stills]</ref>

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fractionating_column
* http://www.rebelwolf.com/essn/ESSN-Oct2005.pdf
* [http://www.green-trust.org/freebooks/ Free e-books on making your own ethanol]

[[Category:Energy storage]]
[[Category:Health care]]
[[Category:Alcohol_fuels]]