== Friday Social Night ==
Hello all!  As our membership is rapidly expanding beyond just SFSU students, we are instituting bi-weekly social nights to discuss club business, expand knowledge of [[international development]], and have some fun. 

The plan is to hold these on the second and fourth Friday of every month at 6:00pm.  We'll probably change the location to keep things interesting.  Or maybe we won't.

So join us this Friday (April 25th!) at 6:00pm at the [http://www.squatandgobble.com/menu_crepes.htm | Squat and Gobble] cafe at 1 W Portal Ave.  Note: there are several of these cafes so don't go to the wrong one.

==BAY BRIDGE TOUR==
ASCE and EWB are collaborating on a tour of the Bay Bridge on
Thursday, May 15 at 2:00 there is talk of raffling off tickets to
attend as seating is limited.  If you are interested, contact
dreber@sfsu.edu

==SENIOR PROJECT==
For those of us starting our senior projects next fall, some of us
will be designing a medical waste incinerator which will be installed
in a medical clinic currently being designed for construction in [[Haiti]].

==GRID ALTERNATIVES==
The Grid Alternatives collaboration is on pause due to a lack of
funds.  If someone you know is interested in making a $5000 donation
to Grid Alternatives, we will have a project and a low income home can
have a free solar panel installed

==BOLIVIA:==
====Time====
The Bolivia trip will start Aug 1st and last for 3 weeks (that should
give you 3 or 4 days to be in CA before classes start).  Here is the
initial calendar.  As of this writing, it lists May 27 as the start
date, but the real start date is Aug 1.  The calendar should give you
and idea of the activities we are considering.  Please provide any
feedback you have regarding the calendar.
http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=agroinnovation%40gmail.com&ctz=America/La_Paz
currently start man 27 moved to Aug
1

====Money====
We estimate $2000.  $1000 for the plane ride.  $1000 to cover in
country expenses. The budget is currently being worked on

====availability====
There are a total 8 seats.  The more we fill, the less we each have to
pay for in country costs.  Currently 4 have been called for.  First
come first serve!

====Requirements====
Passport, Yellow Fever Vaccine and a Bolivian visa.  Don't buy a plane
ticket until you have these.

==MEETING:==
We will be having a meeting this week on Tuesday at 12:00pm to discuss
all of the issues regarding this trip, if you are interested in going
to Bolivia, speak up because it's a first come first served situation.

==TANZANIA:==
EWB-SFP (the San Francisco Professional Chapter) is looking for more
volunteers for their Tanzania project, so if you are interested,
contact David (dreber@sfsu.edu)

==BIKE TO SCHOOL DAY==
Bike to school day will occur on the 24th of April.
If you want to help out or just get the low down, go to btsd.wikidot.com
{{catneeded}}