See also [[EWB Australia]]'s [http://www.ewb.org.au/event/ events page] for the current calendar. 

==Book club==
[http://www.ewb.org.au/event/?eid=214 Earthworms] Book club meets on the 4th Tuesday of every month in Leichhardt. Please RSVP - see the [http://www.ewb.org.au/event/?eid=214 Earthworms event page] link for details.

==Introduction to Wikis==
Introduction to the ways that a [[wiki]] facilitates collaboration with people locally and worldwide. Explain a bit about Appropedia, Wikipedia, and touch on other wikis (e.g. those at the [[WikiNode]]).

This could be part of another event. 

Currently on the backburner.

==Committee meetings==
Come and join the planning and organising. Contact Nicole Teo (contact via the [http://ewb.org.au/chapter.php chapter page].

==Appropriate technology challenge day==
Saturday 24 March 2007 - follows 22 March which is WaterAid's World Water Day 

==EWB-NSW PHAST WORKSHOP==
April/MAy 2007. Learn what Participatory Hygiene and Sanitation is all about.

==National Engineering Week 2006 events==
Monday, 14 August 2006: 5:30 pm, “The Harricks Address”, including EWB Volunteer of the Year, Zenith Theatre, Chatswood

Tuesday, 15 August 2006: 6:00 pm, “Sustainable Energy Forum”, Australian Maritime Museum

Friday, 18 August 2006: 6:30 pm, Young Engineers Tenpin Bowling Fundraiser For Engineers Without Borders, Strike Bowling, Fox Studios.

For more information go to http://www.engineeringweek.org.au/events-2006.htm


==External links==
*[http://ewb.org.au/event.php EWB Australia events]

[[Category:EWB NSW]]
[[Category:Australian events]]