{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Post-partum hemorrhage is the cause for 8% of direct pregnancy-related deaths in
industrialized countries and 25% of maternal deaths in the developing world. In trauma
patients, hemorrhagic shock is the second most frequent cause of death.
==Detailed description of the solution==
The external aortic compression device, also known as the EACD, consists of a strong
metal spring, cylindrical in shape, covered with leather. It has a height of 12 cm (5 cm
when compressed), diameter of 8 cm, and a net surface area of 22.3 cm2. It is fixed in
place by a leather belt wrapped around the waist. When not in use, it is held compressed
and fixed with Velcro™ straps. When the straps are released the spring will open and
the desired pressure (103.5 mm Hg/cm2 (30 kg)) on the abdominal wall is achieved in
order to stop bleeding.
==Designed by==
*Designed by:
Dr. Soltan from the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty of Medicine, Minia
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location:

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
 
==Funding Source==

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
* [http://www.appropedia.org Example External URL]

===Other internally generated reports===
Soltan, M.H., et al., External aortic compression device: The first aid for postpartum
hemorrhage control. Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Research, 2009. 35(3): p.
453-458.
===Externally generated reports===
===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->