== What are fats and oils? ==

{{expand section}}

'''Fats and oils''':
*do not mix with water
*will mix with other oils

'''Oils''' are distinguished from '''fats''' by the fact that they are normally liquid at room temperature.  Fats are normally solid at room temperature.

Fats and especially oils are generally flammable and care must be taken to avoid accidentally igniting.


== Sources ==

You can get oil out of many plant products, if you squeeze them hard enough.

[[Vegetable oils]] include:
* [[Canola Oil]]
* [[Lanolin]]
* [[Lard]]
* [[Lindseed oil]]
* [[Olive oil]]
* [[Peanut oil]]
* [[Safflower oil]]
* [[Sesame seed oil]]
* [[Walnut oil]]

[[Animal fats]] include:
* [[Butter]]
* [[Suet]]
* [[Tallow]]

== Uses ==


=== Vegetable and animal fats and oils ===

Edible fats and oils, including [[animal fats]] and [[vegetable fats]] ([[vegetable oils]]), are an important component of the human diet. Lack of adequate food energy is a continuing problem in many areas of the developing world and in [[famine]]s, resulting in [[malnutrition]], [[disease]], and deaths; while in the [[developed countries]] over-consumption of fats leads to [[obesity]] and serious health problems.

They can also be used for [[biofuel]], through conversion to [[biodiesel]] or direct use as [[straight vegetable oil]]. This raises serious issues of [[food security]], as ever-increasing demand for transport fuel, especially from richer people, competes with food crops (both using food crops for biofuel and replacing food crops with biofuel-oriented crops). This places the ability of the poor to feed themselves in danger.

A more recent use is the production of [[bioplastics]].{{w|bioplastic}}{{fact}}

Fats are the carriers of several important [[vitamin]]s, and are also an important source of [[food energy]] ([[calorie]]). 

=== Petroleum ===

Inedible oils include petroleum products such as [[kerosene]]. These are a [[non-renewable resource]]. 

These which are used:
* As [[fossil fuels]] for [[transport]]
* In the production of [[plastics]], and [[personal care products]] such as perfumes.{{expand}}
* As [[fuel]] in [[internal combustion engine]]s (including [[diesel]] engines) 
* For light and cooking, in [[kerosene lamps]] and [[kerosene stoves]]. These contribute to [[indoor air pollution]], causing a major health problem with [[respiratory diseases]], as well as [[house fires]] which cause death and injury.
* As machine [[lubricants]]. 

The burning of petroleum products is a major contributor to [[climate change]].

== See also ==

* [[Fixed oils & animal fats]] s based on the Household Cyclopedia (1881)
* [[Original:Small Scale Oil Extraction from Groundnuts and Copra]]
* [[Original:Small Scale Vegetable Oil Extraction]]

== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:Fat]]
* [[Wikipedia:Oil]]

== External links ==

* [http://www.richsoil.com/permaculture/?s=supersize Podcast review of movies Supersize Me and Fathead]by Paul Wheaton and Jocelyn Campbell
 
{{stub}}

[[Category:Food and agriculture]]