Here are various art exhibitions around the theme of trees and forests.

==Tervetuloa lehdistötilaisuuteen: 31.7.2009 klo. 12 – 13==

Näyttely: ”Metsä – Kaupunki – Metsä”
Tiina Leppänen
Galleria Ronga, Rongankatu 1 C 9, 33100 Tampere
Aika: 1 – 13.8.2009

Avajaiset: perjantaina, 31.7.2009, klo. 18 – 20.

Galleria Ronga avoinna: joka päivä klo. 12 – 18


Metsä kaupungissa: ei oikea metsä, mutta metsä kuitenkin. Millainen se on?
Siellä näkyy luonnon lisäksi ihmisen jäljet; roskia, polkuja, penkkejä,
rakennuksia ja graffiteja.
Näyttely koostuu kankaalle ja kovalevylle maalatuista teoksista, joissa on
aiheena metsän ja kaupunkimaisuuden välinen vuoropuhelu; rakennus lomittuu
metsään riippuen siitä, mistä sitä katsoo. Metsästä päin katsottuna jotkut
rakennukset tuntuvat kuin hukkuvan metsän sisään. Teokset on maalattu
öljyväreillä ulkona Pyynikin metsässä Tampereella ja sen lähiympäristössä.
Osa maalauksista on maalattu pelkästään mustalla ja valkoisella värillä.
Rakennusten ja luonnon muodot tulevat Tiina Leppäsen mielestä hyvin esiin
harmaan eri sävyissä .
Kovalevylle maalatut pienet teokset ovat värikkäitä. Niissä korostuvat
esimerkiksi lumen ja joidenkin ihmisen jättämien jälkien välinen kontrasti
tai rinnakkaiselo, esimerkiksi jalanjälki jäällä tai yksinäinen penkki
lumihangessa. Joulukuussa sulaneen lumen alta pilkottaa nuhjuinen
mehupurkki. Purkin kova sininen väri luo kontrastin maan oransseille
värisävyille. Talvinen luonto näyttää melkein samanlaiselta kuin keväällä,
ainoastaan syksyn värit erottavat näkymän keväästä.


Lisätietoja:
Tiina Leppänen.
puh. 050 – 5737958 tai
e - mail: tiina.le@kolumbus.fi

==Ghost Forest ==

http://www.ghostforest.org/

Ghost Forest is a major art installation consisting of 10 primary rainforest tree stumps which were brought to Europe from a commercially logged forest in Western Africa by the artist Angela Palmer (www.angelaspalmer.com). The work is intended to highlight the alarming depletion of the world's natural resources, and in particular the continued rate of deforestation. Today, a tropical forest the size of a football pitch is destroyed every four seconds, impacting on climate, biodiversity and the livelihoods of indigenous people. The trees in Ghost Forest - most of which fell naturally in storms - are intended to represent rainforest trees worldwide; the absence of their trunks is presented as a metaphor for the removal of the world's lungs caused through the loss of our forests.

The tree stumps were exhibited as a “ghost forest” in Trafalgar Square in London last November, and then in Copenhagen in December during the UN's Climate Change Conference. In July this year Ghost Forest will be exhibited for a year on the lawn of Oxford University's Museum of Natural History and the Pitt Rivers Museum. The exhibition will coincide with the Museum of Natural History's 150th anniversary this year, and the UN's International Year of Biodiversity. In 2011 it is the UN's International Year of Forests.


Ghost Forest is a carbon neutral project - following input from Climate Care, Ghost Forest's carbon footprint will be offset, see here for details.

http://www.angelaspalmer.com/

== Year of the Bear ==

http://www.vapriikki.net/karhunvuosi/

== GV Art ==

http://www.gvart.co.uk/index.html

 

Andrew Carnie
DENDRITIC FORMS


23rd June – 10th September 2010

Tuesday to Friday 11am to 6pm, Saturdays 11am to 4pm
or by appointment

[[Category:Forestry]]