'''Peer to Peer Learning in Indigenous Mountain Forestry Communities in Thailand
'''

==Background==

Learning is a key driver of much human activity. Learning is often accomplished by groups of individuals. P2P (peer to peer) is a special form of relational dynamics on the group level. P2P learning
is now seen as a way that communities can cascade knowledge effectively outside of traditional westernized corporate / educational structures. How learning happens in forest communities has big implications for forest inventory, protection of forests and cultures. As well as being profitable, especially in the solidarity economy. 

Organizational ergonomics, relational capital and its role in knowledge transfer gain from learning how people interact in these traditional forestry practices. I have experienced some traditional practices in Europe and think there can be meta-level commonalities I will find in exploring similar contexts in Asia. The part indigenous practices play in forest management is significant in other communities in Asia and North America. Commonalities and unique practices may give useful technology for application in many applied science disciplines for the benefit of all.

==Significance & Impact of the Research==

The CIFOR's scientific news blog highlights valuable, indigenous belief forestry research has happened in other countries, but not Thailand. In Thailand there are organizations asking for research with the indigenous people. The Akha Heritage Foundation is one. Another is the Foundation for P2P Alternatives. The situation on the ground in Thailand re forestry and indigenous people is one that calls for applied development research. 

I expect to find some practical ways that knowledge can be spread in marginally settled areas. It will be useful to practitioners of p2p learning, such as the Barefoot College in India. I plan that a similar process to the foraging and herbologies network I helped set-up in the Nordic countries, can be supported for the indigenous peoples. 

This would allow professionals, development workers, Thai government officials and missionaries to better bridge to the community and help to prevent knowledge being lost to the traditional peoples in the process of modernization. It can lead to a more sensitive engagement by various stakeholders and the support of human rights for the indigenous people.

To make these more than aspirations requires a clear plan for how the research findings will be used. This will be developed in the preparatory phase of the research with the partners and significant stakeholders. I have begun conversations on the application of this work with key people.

==Novelty of Research Topic==

The Kingdom of Thailand is “modernizing” and “civilizing” the aboriginal people aided and abetted by Christian and Western influences. These are eroding the traditional culture of these tribal peoples that have long lived from forest based resource use. 

The “modernization” is partly driven by ecological sustainability concerns, with economic motivators, yet cultural sustainability is the missing leg of the 3 legged stool of sustainability. Though there is an ongoing 2 year research project to document many cultural traditions, its focus is more ethnographic. And not necessarily grounded in the perspectives of the wider aspects of the cultural appreciation and practice nor the group dynamics that are important in making such practice happen. 

The literature I have reviewed seeks to be documentative and not participative. There is peer 2 peer research literature and many projects, but the networking aspect with indigenous peoples is weak. There is little written on religious and especially non-Abrahamic religious practices within the context of a P2P altermondialist dialectic. The more holistic, indigenous, multivoice perspective is missing from much of the literature.

==Research Methodology & Study Design==

I plan go to Chiang Mai where the P2P Foundation is based and meet with indigenous people and interview them. I would go on field-trips to the indigenous communities. This I do in accordance with the [[Manifesto of Ethical Applied Development Research Principles|Manifesto of Ethical Principles]] I wrote. The field-trips allow photo and video documentation and context based observation.

I shall use techniques such as narrative analysis, interviewing in the qualitative paradigm. These are preferred as they leave an archive that allows further research and a resource for the indigenous people. A more in depth literature review and use of social networks will inform the research. These media are increasingly going to be the way that the tribals will want to access information and be best for sharing outputs. I have some supportive contacts for Thailand and would seek to involve them in my research so that it is a movement rather than an individual’s perspective. 

I will look for different learning settings and how the learning actually manifests. I will document so that differences and commonalities are clear. I want to look historically and to document contemporary practices. As new forms are being created in living traditions I can take some futurist perspectives. This allows ownership and application of the research findings by those researched with and others.

==Objectives==

Uncover how and why learning takes place in these communities
Identify traditional learning practices and individual practitioners 
Record and recognize these practices as a resource others can benefit from 
Support the indigenous people in cultural sustainability

==Target Groups==

The principle target group will be those that work or have worked in forestry from what are called the “hill tribes“ of Thailand. My main target group to work with is the Akha people, who have culturally engaged in forestry and now are being transitioned by the Thai authorities from traditional slash and burn agriculture to more settled forms of existence. 

It maybe that I encounter other tribal people with different practices that I can study, but it would be overly ambitious to expect to study in 2 months all tribes to any great depth. There are many Akha around Chaing Mai and also Akha villages that have contacts with researchers which might be easier to approach than some others. To communicate is an issue as several languages are spoken and local translators are probably needed. There are indigenous academics people in Chiang Mai so I think to network usefully with such local researchers.

THIS document was written by Markus Petz in Dec 2012, it maybe modified during the research development process. It was originally written during a course in Applied Development Research at BOKU.

[[Category:Indigenous Peoples Forest Wiki]]