{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Freeplay.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Newborn mortality accounts for over half of all infant deaths. In developing countries, where giving birth at home is common, there may be a lack of electricity to support delivery. Hand cranked heart rate monitors are more suitable for rural settings than expensive Western-derived equipment which can be difficult to repair and often rely on replaceable batteries. Discovering lowered heart rate during contractions gives medical workers a chance to suspend delivery, try to get more sophisticated medical assistance, and protect the well being of the mother and infant.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This device measures the infant’s heart rate during birth. The design includes an obstetrics ultrasound device connected to the main unit by a cord. It also contains a power-management electronic module, a sound amplifier and a crank for winding up the device. This robust design is meant to withstand wear and tear.  Cranking its onboard power-supply charger for one minute provides 10 minutes of operation.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Philip Goodwin (industrial designer), Stefan Zwahlen (electronics designer) and John Hutchinson (project leader) in Cape Town, South Africa.
*Manufacturing: This device is manufactured by Ultrasound Technologies Ltd in Caldicot, South Wales, United Kingdom. Website available [http://www.doppler.co.uk/ here].

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
This device was tested in South Africa and is now available on the market.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Woods, D. (2009). Appropriate technology and education for improved intrapartum care in under-resourced countries. South African Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology. 15(3), 78-79.

(Author unknown). (2009). Freeplay Fetal Heart rate monitor a winner. South African Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology. 15(3), 77-77.

===Other internally generated reports===
Datasheet for the Fetal Heart Rate Monitor.  PDF available [http://www.doppler.co.uk/datasheets/freeplayFHRM%20.pdf here].

Fetal Heart Monitor.  Freeplay.  Link available [http://www.freeplayenergy.com/page-view.php?pagename=Fetal-Heart-Monitor here].

===Externally generated reports===
Fetal Heart Rate Monitor.  Mandate: Maternal and Neonatal Directed Assessment of Technology.  PDF available [http://mnhtech.org/uploads/Fetal%20Heart%20Rate%20Monitor.pdf here].

Fetal Heart Rate Monitor by Philip Goodwin, Stefan Zwahlen and John Hutchinson.  DesignBoom.  Link available [http://www.designboom.com/weblog/cat/8/view/7425/fetal-heart-rate-monitor-by-philip-goodwin-stefan-zwahlen-and-john-hutchinson.html here].

Freeplay grid-free, crank-powered fetal Monitor.  Maternova.  Link available [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/freeplay-grid-free-crank-powered-fetal-monitor here].

Hand-cranked fetal monitor by Freeplay.  Maternova.  Link available [http://maternova.net/news/hand-cranked-fetal-monitor-freeplay here].

Index: Design to Improve Life.  Link available [http://www.indexaward.dk/index.php?option=com_content_custom&view=article&id=373:free-play-fetal-heart-reat-monitor&catid=9:winners-2009&Itemid=20 here].