{{explain redlinks}}

The '''Fukushima I nuclear accidents''' occurred in Japan during the [[March 2011 Japanese earthquake and tsunami]]. A significant amount of [[radioactive material]] was released into the [[atmosphere]] and a large number of residents were evacuated from surrounding areas.

<blockquote>
"There is talk of an apocalypse and I think the word is particularly well chosen... Practically everything is out of control. I cannot exclude the worst in the hours and days to come." - ,” European Energy Commissioner, Guenther Oettinger, speaking to EU ministers.<ref>Reported by London's Daily Telegraph newspaper, described at: [http://www.marketwatch.com/story/eu-energy-chief-japan-situation-out-of-control-2011-03-16 EU energy chief: Japan situation ‘out of control’] ''MarketWatch'', March 16, 2011.</ref>
</blockquote>

Workers at the plant voluntarily exposed themselves to potentially fatal radiation levels, one of them saying "We are not afraid to die."<ref>[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/03/15/eveningnews/main20043554.shtml?tag=cbsnewsTwoColUpperPromoArea Fukushima heroes: Not afraid to die], ''CBS News'', March 15, 2011.</ref>

== Causes ==

Several factors contributed to the Fukushima I nuclear accidents:
* Poor location close to the sea and very close to sea level. This made certain Japanese plants unprepared for a catastrophic [[earthquake]] plus [[tsunami]] (in an area where such catastrophes are known to be possible).
* Lack of preparedness of pumps - some pumps had been inoperable for years{{fact}}
* An unexpectedly large earthquake and tsunami - or to be more accurate, an inadequate [[safety margin]].

== Notes and references ==
{{reflist}}

== See also ==

* [[Nuclear energy]]


== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:Fukushima I nuclear accidents]]
* [[Wikipedia:Nuclear power in Japan]]
* [[Wikipedia:Tokaimura nuclear accident]], Japan's worst civilian nuclear radiation accident at the time it occurred on 30 September 1999.

== External links ==
{{add links}}

* [] 

{{stub}}

[[Category:Disasters]]
[[Category:Japan]]
[[Category:Nuclear power]]