{{Lit}}
<center>This is a literature page for project [http://www.appropedia.org/Fuzzy_logic_control_system_for_a_underwater_unmanned_vehicle Fuzzy logic control system for a underwater unmanned vehicle]<br />Maintained by: Phaneendra Nalla, Subrat S. Kamat, Zicheng Sun and [http://www.appropedia.org/User:Du_Zhaoxu Du Zhaoxu]</center>


== Review ==
=== Fuzzy Logic Controller for Submarine.<ref>[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/articleDetails.jsp?arnumber=4133463 Pathan, D.M., M.A. Unar, and M.-D. Memon. “Fuzzy Logic Controller for Submarine.” In 9th International Multitopic Conference, IEEE INMIC 2005, 1–6, 2005. doi:10.1109/INMIC.2005.334448.]</ref> ===
[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/articleDetails.jsp?arnumber=4133463 Pathan, D.M., M.A. Unar, and M.-D. Memon. “Fuzzy Logic Controller for Submarine.” In 9th International Multitopic Conference, IEEE INMIC 2005, 1–6, 2005. doi:10.1109/INMIC.2005.334448.]
<br />Reviewed by [http://www.appropedia.org/User:Du_Zhaoxu Du Zhaoxu]

This paper introduces general fuzzy logic control method for a submarine moving in plane parallel to the earth surface. Paper give both simulation in ideal situation with no disturbance and in presence of sea currents.
<br />Paper give brief introduction of concept of fuzzy logic control method, describe it as 'expert' system, and brings fuzzy interference system (FIS) into the control system of submarine. As one of FIS system, Mamdani type of FIS system is used in this paper. 
<br />Paper first set up submarine models using linearized state space model. This model is further modified, considering sea currents as disturbance, according to linear superposition theorem.
<br />Then, accordingly, desired state model is built to give the difference as input.
As core content, paper define three stage for fuzzy controller system: input stage, processing stage and output stage. For input stage, according to the submarine model, heading error and heading rate are used as input data. For output stage, rudder deflection is considered as output data. All these three data are fuzzificated into variables of membership functions according to the table of 'Member functions of variables'. Then rules are define for each vector of fuzzificated inputs. Totally, the number of rules should be: (number of membership function)^(number of inputs). After rules are set, output can be searched accordingly. At last output should be defuzzificated into executable data.
<br />Simulation for this model shows stable control result.
<br />Paper does not consider vertical motion model. However, vertical motion model can be separately built and composited with horizontal plane movement.


=== A Novel Fuzzy Logic PID Algorithm for Submarine Hydraulic Rudder Control.<ref>[http://www.scientific.net/AMM.236-237.1222 Sun, Rong, Sheng Liu, and Lan Yong Zhang. “A Novel Fuzzy Logic PID Algorithm for Submarine Hydraulic Rudder Control.” Applied Mechanics and Materials 236–237 (November 2012). doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMM.236-237.1222.]</ref> ===
[http://www.scientific.net/AMM.236-237.1222 Sun, Rong, Sheng Liu, and Lan Yong Zhang. “A Novel Fuzzy Logic PID Algorithm for Submarine Hydraulic Rudder Control.” Applied Mechanics and Materials 236–237 (November 2012). doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMM.236-237.1222.]
<br />Reviewed by [http://www.appropedia.org/User:Du_Zhaoxu Du Zhaoxu]

Review content

== References ==
<references/>
<references/>