'''Gardening''' is the practice of tending a [[garden]]. Gardening is often a domestic activity and is often done by the people who also directly benefit from it (unless they employ a gardener). By contrast, [[agriculture]] and [[horticulture]] focus on commercial value.

==Benefits==
A network of crops grown near the house helps to further ensure regional food security and encourages self-sufficiency and cooperative interdependence within communities.<ref>Flores, H.C. ''Food Not Lawns: How to Turn Your Yard into a Garden and Your Neighborhood into a Community''. New York: Chelsea Green, 2006.</ref> With every bite of food raised from urban gardens, negative environmental impacts are reduced in numerous ways. For instance, vegetables and fruits raised within small-scale gardens and farms are not grown with tremendous applications of nitrogen fertilizer{{w|nitrogen fertilizer}} required for industrial agricultural operations. The nitrogen fertilizers cause toxic chemical leaching and runoff that enters our water tables. Nitrogen fertilizer also produces [[nitrous oxide]], a more damaging [[greenhouse gas]] than carbon dioxide{{w|carbon dioxide}}. Local, community-grown food also requires no imported, long-distance transport which further depletes our fossil fuel reserves.<ref>Nyerges, Christopher. ''Urban Wilderness: a guidebook to resourceful city living''. Culver, CA: Peace Press, 1979.</ref> In developing more efficiency per land acre, urban gardens can be started in a wide variety of areas: in vacant lots, public parks, private yards, church and school yards, on roof tops (roof-top gardens{{w|roof-top garden}}), and many other places. Communities can work together in changing zoning limitations in order for public and private gardens to be permissible.<ref>Hemenway, Toby. ''Gaia’s Garden''. New York: Chelsea Green, 2000.</ref> Aesthetically pleasing edible landscaping plants can also be incorporated into city landscaping such as blueberry bushes, grapevines trained on an arbor, pecan trees, etc. With as small a scale as home or community farming, sustainable and organic farming methods can easily be utilized. Such sustainable, organic farming techniques include: [[composting]], biological pest control{{w|biological pest control}}, crop rotation{{w|crop rotation}}, [[mulching]], [[drip irrigation]], nutrient cycling{{w|nutrient cycling}} and [[permaculture]].<ref>Warde, Jon, ed. ''The Backyard Builder: Over 150 Projects for Your Garden, Home and Yard''. New York: Random House, 1994.</ref> For more information on sustainable farming systems, see [[sustainable agriculture]].

== Navigation ==
To browse Appropedia's information on gardening, view the "horticulture and gardening" category, below. 

The agriculture category will be useful for specific crops and techniques:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
!Horticulture and gardening category
!Agriculture category
|-valign="top"
|<categorytree mode=pages>Horticulture and gardening</categorytree>
|<categorytree mode=pages>Agriculture</categorytree>
|}

== See also ==
{{multicol}}
* [[AEF spiral herb garden]]
* [[Bag gardens]]
* [[Balcony garden]]
* [[Balcony gardens]]
* [[Beginners permaculture garden]]
* [[Community garden]]
* [[Community gardening]]
* [[Community gardens]]
* [[Container gardening]]
* [[Deidre's vertical vegetable garden]]
* [[El Jardín Mágico de las Niñas/In the garden lesson plan]]
* [[Forest gardening]]
* [[Guerrilla gardening]]
* [[Guerrilla gardening/Mabolo]]
* [[Guerrilla gardening/Papaya]]
{{multicol-break}}
* [[Herb garden]]
* [[How to start a community garden]]
* [[Humboldt organic gardening gallery]]
* [[Indoor gardening]]
* [[Keyhole garden]]
* [[Keyhole gardens]]
* [[Laurel Tree Charter School project growth garden]]
* [[Laurel Tree project growth garden]]
* [[Lazy gardening]]
* [[Lazy gardens]]
* [[Locally Delicious garden addition for kids and adults]]
* [[Locally Delicious school garden]]
* [[Making the most of a home garden]]
* [[Mandala garden]]
* [[Mumbai Port Trust terrace garden]]
* [[Organic gardening]]
{{multicol-break}}
* [[Ornamental gardens]]
* [[Permaculture garden in Cook County]]
* [[Pkb7's gardening tips from the Arcata Educational Farm]]
* [[Rain gardens]]
* [[Raised bed gardens]]
* [[Raised garden bed]]
* [[Raised garden beds]]
* [[Solar powered vertical vegetable garden]]
* [[Spiral herb garden]]
* [[Urban gardening]]
* [[Veg Out community gardens, Melbourne]]
* [[Vegetable garden]]
* [[Vertical garden]]
* [[Vertical gardens]]
* [[Victory gardens]]
* [[Wick gardening]]
{{multicol-end}}

== References ==
<references />

== Interwiki links ==
* [[Wikibooks: Horticulture]]

[[Category:Gardening]]
[[Category:Agriculture]]