<br />''Indoor air pollution leads to ethanol production in Ghana.''



== '''Issue:''' ==
Indoor air pollution poses a serious problem for many people in underdeveloped countries.  
In these areas of the world, people have been using fuel substances that are inadequate 
and produce a harmful smoke in their everyday cooking applications.  
The World Health Organization[http://www.who.int/indoorair/info/briefing2.pdf] found that 
items such as wood and coal are often used.  
However, sometimes people will use agricultural residues and dung as fuel for their fires.<sup>1</sup> 
When people use these types of fuel sources in a confined area that has poor ventilation, living conditions become hazardous. 
Airborne particles, carbon monoxide, formaldehyde and carcinogens are posing the largest problems.<sup>1</sup>
                                             
                                                                                                     
== '''Solution:''' ==
A organization called GlobalResolve[http://globalresolve.asu.edu] is actively involved 
in an effort to improve indoor air pollution problems that exist in developing countries. 
The effort is run through Arizona State University 
with the aid of students and international partners.<sup>2</sup>  One of existing projects 
is taking place in the West African country of Ghana.  The vast majority of Ghanaians who live in small villages
have turned to solid fuel sources as a means to heat and cook in their homes.  What GlobalResolve has 
been working on in recent years is a corn-based, fermented, gelled ethanol that would replace the solid 
forms of fuel that are currently in use.<sup>2</sup>  The new fuel will be a safe, clean burning alternative 
to what is currently available.  Along with the new gelled ethanol, a new smokeless stove is in the 
works that will accompany the fuel.
                                                 
== '''Current Progress:''' ==
As of September of 2008, the village of Domeabra in Ghana has been producing the ethanol fuel made 
from the local resources of corn and at the hands of local workers.<sup>3</sup>  
According to the GlobalResolve team, they are currently working on the economic viability and sustainability 
of the business to ensure it stays around.  They will be working with the chief of Domeabra to establish 
a means to distribute the fuel to all cities and villages who need to switch from the hazardous 
solid forms of fuel they currently use.<sup>3</sup>



----




== '''Sources:''' ==
 

*<sup>1,1.2</sup>World Health Organization. “Indoor Air Thematic Briefing 2.”  

<http://www.who.int/indoorair/info/briefing2.pdf>

*<sup>2,2.2</sup>Leech, Eric. “GlobalResolve: Reducing Pollution in Ghana Using Smart Business.” 5, March 2009. 

<http://planetgreen.discovery.com/tech-transport/green-inventor-global-resolove.html>

*<sup>3,3.2</sup>GlobalResolve. 
<http://globalresolve.asu.edu/projects>

{{attrib class|JMC330 International Mass Communication|May 15, 2010}}
[[Category:JMC330 International Mass Communication]]