Here is a recipe for great tasting ghee:

Melt unsalted butter in heavy saucepan over moderate heat.  (Recipe tester used 5 lbs.) Increase the heat after it's melted and bring the butter to a boil. When the surface is completely covered with foam, stir the butter gently and and reduce the heat to the lowest possible setting. Simmer UNCOVERED and UNDISTURBED for approximately 1 hour, or until the milk solids in the bottom of the pan have turned golden brown and the butter on top is transparent.  Take off flame and let sit for 5 minutes. There will be a crust on top and this can be gently skimmed off with a slotted spoon. Strain the butter through a sieve lined with 4 layers chesecloth or a piece of linen. If there are any solids in the ghee, no matter how small, strain it again until it is perfectly clear. Pour into hot sterilized oven-dried jars. (To create hot sterile jars, set jars and parts in oven at 250 degrees for 20 minutes.) Wipe rims of jars and put on hot sterilized lids and rings. This should seal by itself. If not, put jars in boiling waterbath for 20 minutes. The ghee will be a pretty yellow color. However, when it cools, it will be a light yellow opaque color and will not harden completely. Turn jars a few times before storing. For storage purposes, it should be kept cold. Shelf life is roughly 5 years. Ghee is much healthier for you than regular butter and will not burn when used for frying as all of the solids have been strained out and the water boiled away. Ghee is common in East Indian cooking.

== See also ==

== External links ==

[[Category:Food and agriculture]]