'''Steve Jobs as an innovator

'''Steve Jobs once indicated focus groups don't work because customers don't know what they want.

Was arrogant and confident and many success can be attributed to making decisions of what not to do versus what to do.

They have had significant failure

Missionary and evangelist

Risk taker.Fiction usually becomes fact.

Innovators are born and not made

CEO innovator

Curiosity leads to innovation.

Not afraid to fail.

Many innovators do not possess a degree.

Thirst for knowledge lead to cross domain expertise which contribute to innovative ideas.

Big Questions:
''How to sustain investment in R&D?

''Workers will demand greater work life balance.''

''Generation Y which have different needs and expectation.''


With blackberry & smartphones there is a blurring distinction on when is work time.

Employees are now always on and have access to work at their convenience

Work life balance might not mean needing to set out fixed time to do work but at your convenience

Empowers employees to manage own work life balance.

Brings to question of number of hours work versus productivity

Flexible work balance would require some form of self discipline and motivation and how would this affect gen Y work dynamics 

Generation Y have different needs and expectation.

They work for different reasons than just monetary compensation.

They tend to be bossy and usually are more financially secure which might lead to innovative traits

There will be an issue motivating them and retaining their talent

[[Category:GIL]]