*This should be part of the yet to be created - Working or CommonWork namespace.  DELETE this line when moved.

Please keep this updated with your supply leads and advice. Know a great store, website, free bin or other, let us know.  Feel free to add to the lists even if you are missing some of the information. If you have additional information about one of these stores please add it as well.

== Free Stuff ==
Some possible sources for free stuff in your community.

===USA===
*Many communities have free bins
*Many communities have material exchange boards online
*Construction sites
**Make sure to ask permission

== External links ==
;[http://www.sciplus.com American Science and Surplus]
: All types of crazy and useful hardware for pretty good prices. (Interestingly still using line art drawings, instead of photos, for items.)

; [http://www.harborfreight.com Harbor Freight]
: Classic hardware site, unfortunately many products are cheaply made with dubious labor environments. Wanna be tempted - click "What's Hot".

;[http://www.realgoods.com Real Goods]	
:Real pricey ...but real cool.

;[http://www.abebooks.com Abe Books]
:Great spot for used technical and school books. I bought a linear algebra book here for $7, used it for the semester, and sold it back for $55. I bought an [[appropriate technology]] book for 80% off its cover price. I bought...ad nauseam. If you want to find by ISBN, use advanced tab.

;[http://www.aureka.com Aureka]		
:<cite>"AUREKA is a metal workshop unit of the Auroville international township, located a few miles north of Pondicherry in south-east India. Particular emphasis is placed on the manufacture of equipment supportive of [[sustainability]] - such as windpumps, shredder and compressed earth block presses (for building) etc, though a wide variety of other work is also undertaken."</cite>

;[http://www.crestcapital.com Equipment Leasing]
: Crest Capital, a leasing and financing outfit based in Atlanta, helps small businesses in their efforts to acquire equipment that employs newer, greener and more efficient technologies. Industries serviced include construction, agriculture and health.

[[Category:Supplies]]