= Grants =
* The [[International Journal for Service Learning in Engineering]] (IJSLE) is proud to partner with the Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter Partnership Foundation, Inc. (JRCPF) in offering [[Carter Academic Service Entrepreneur]] (CASE) grants to support engineering service learning projects. The overall purpose of this program is to facilitate collaborative preliminary engineering design efforts in community projects. Partnerships are strongly encouraged between the student grant recipients and either: a) university students located near the project location, or b) members of a host community organization at the project location.The IJSLE-CASE grants include $1,000 to implement the project along with certificates of merit signed by President Jimmy Carter and Mrs. Rosalynn Carter. See: [http://www.engr.psu.edu/IJSLE/Carter.htm]
* Adobe Community Action Grants -Quarterly Application Deadlines: March 31; June 30; September 30; December 31, Adobe Systems awards one-time grants for one year general operating and program support ranging from $5,000-$20,000. Focus areas include Creativity in Education and Commitment to Community. Eligible nonprofit organizations and schools must be located in one of the following areas: San Jose/Silicon Valley and San Francisco, California; Seattle/King County, Washington; and Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. [http://www.adobe.com/aboutadobe/philanthropy/commgivingprgrm.html]

== Environmental Grants ==
* Do Something and GameStop are offering grants of $500 each to young people, in the U.S. or Canada, with an idea for community-action projects that need support to turn their idea into reality.[http://www.dosomething.org/grant_list] 
* The RBC Blue Water Project is a wide-ranging, multi-year program to help foster a culture of water stewardship across Canada and abroad, so that people have fresh water today and tomorrow.[http://www.rbc.com/community/donations/blue-water/application.html]
* Captain Planet Foundation distributes grants to support hands-on environmental projects with youth. Applications are reviewed in March, June, September and December. Generally, the range of grants awarded by the Foundation is $250 - $2,500. [http://captainplanetfoundation.org/]
* Sustainable Vision grant from NCIIA [http://www.appropedia.org/index.php?title=Grants&action=edit&section=2]

== Lists of Grants ==
* [http://eelink.net/pages/Grants+-+EE+Specific+Resources North America Enviro Ed grants]

== Canada Development ==
* [http://www.idrc.ca/en/ev-54473-201-1-DO_TOPIC.html Canadian International Development Research Council]
** [http://www.idrc.ca/en/ev-26386-201-1-DO_TOPIC.html Canadian Partners Program]
** [http://www.idrc.ca/en/ev-56874-201-1-DO_TOPIC.html info for Can. researchers] IDRC's mandate, status, and objectives are specific and different from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). While both institutions work toward sustainable and equitable development, CIDA focuses on more practical applications, such as private-sector development and meeting basic human needs for safe water, education, and the like. As the federal government department that administers most of Canada's Official Development Assistance program, CIDA also provides humanitarian assistance. IDRC, on the other hand, directs support primarily to researchers and research institutions in the South. In this way, developing countries generate the tools and expertise they need to develop their own solutions to the problems they face.
*[http://www.acdi-cida.gc.ca/CIDAWEB/acdicida.nsf/En/NIC-5483548-GSJ The Canadian International Development Agency] -  They also have activities to raise public awareness or get people involved in Canada.
*[http://www.rural.gc.ca/programs/prog08_e.phtml Rural Partnership Development Program]
*[http://www.infoexport.gc.ca/science/gglobal-en.htm Going Global Science and Technology Fund]
* List: [http://www.infoexport.gc.ca/science/fndgeneral-en.htm Can International R&D]
* [http://www.sdtc.ca/en/funding/index.htm Sustainable Development Technology Canada (SDTC)] SDTC is a not-for-profit foundation that finances and supports the development and demonstration of clean technologies which provide solutions to issues of climate change, clean air, water quality and soil, and which deliver economic, environmental and health benefits to Canadians.
* [http://www.cegn.org/grantmaking/dbsearch_public.cfm Canadian Env. Grant Database]

== Ontario ==
* List for env. edu. [http://www.ec.gc.ca/ecoaction/grnsrc/search_results_e.cfm?action=all_records&all_records=region&region=ont]. 
* $2500 for environment in Kingston - opens in August - [http://www.cfgk.org/grantseekers/communitygrants.htm]
* Toronto Community Foundation Normally funding varies between $5,000 and $10,000. Deadlines for applications are November 1 and May 31 of every year. [http://www.tcf.ca/Default.aspx?tabid=136]
* Energy conservation $50,000 - $250,000  [http://www.powerauthority.on.ca/cfund/Page.asp?PageID=924&ContentID=6411]
* Trillium Environment - range $0 - $1.25M up to five years [http://www.trilliumfoundation.org/cms/en/html/GrantSeekers/GrantSeekers.aspx?menuid=15]
* [http://www.acceleratecanada.ca/ Accelerate Ontario] matching for industry projects
* [http://www.cra-arc.gc.ca/sred/ Canada tax credit for research]

* [http://www.investinontario.com/resources/government_programs_searchresults.asp?cat=Financing&searchby=cat]

'''ecoEnergy for Renewable Power ERP'''

* Eligible Recipient: An eligible recipient is a business, institution or organization (e.g. an independent power producer, a provincial Crown corporation, an electrical utility or energy co-operative) that owns a qualifying project to produce electricity for sale in Canada, for use by its co-op members or for its own consumption. 

* Qualifying Projects: A qualifying project is defined as a new or refurbished low-impact renewable-generating facility, or the clearly delineated expansion of an existing low-impact renewable-generating facility that is located in Canada.The qualifying project must be of a total rated capacity of 1 megawatt (MW) or greater, with the exception of wind energy projects that were commissioned after March 31, 2006, and before April 1, 2007, which must have a total capacity of at least 500 kilowatts (kW). 

* Funding: ecoENERGY for Renewable Power will provide an incentive of one cent per kilowatt-hour for up to 10 years to eligible low-impact, renewable electricity projects constructed between April 1, 2007 and March 31, 2011. 

- The maximum contribution payable per qualifying project will be $80 million over 10 years.

- The maximum contribution to an eligible recipient over the life of the ecoENERGY RP will be $256 million.
[http://www.ecoaction.gc.ca/ecoenergy-ecoenergie/power-electricite/index-eng.cfm]

'''Next Generation of Jobs Fund'''

This would be for industry.

Description: A five-year $1.15 billion strategy to support companies in business expansion /retention and attract foreign investment in green auto research, parts production and assembly; clean fuels research, development and commercialization; manufacturing, processing, environmental technologies; services (ICT & Financial), anchor investments to support cluster development; and opportunity based/ unique investments.
Terms/Assistance/Benefits: The fund will provide up to 15% of the total eligible costs of an approved project. Eligible projects must meet thresholds of $25 million in investment or create /retain 100 jobs within five years.[http://www.ontariocanada.com/ontcan/en/nextgen_criteria_en.jsp]

'''Technology Development Fund'''

* Description: Financial assistance to support pre-commercial technologies or applications that have the potential to improve electricity supply, conservation or demand management.
* Terms/Assistance/Benefits: Maximum contribution by the OPA for any one project is $250,000  
[http://www.investinontario.com/resources/government_programs_progdetails.asp?pID=265]
[http://www.powerauthority.on.ca/tdfund/Storage/70/6530_TFund08Final.pdf]

Sustainable Development Technology Canada
[http://cleantechnologyreport.ca/sponsors/sustainable-development-technology-canada/]

One case for getting funds is 6N Silicon Inc. The company recently received an $8 million grant from Ontario’s Next Generation of Jobs Fund, and has secured a $1.5 million investment from the Ontario Ministry of Research and Innovation’s Innovation Demonstration Fund and $4.5 million in financing from the federal government’s Sustainable Development Technology Canada . (Ontario Business Report Dec 2008/Jan 2009)[http://www.ontariocanada.com/ontcan/1med/downloads/ontario_business_report_jan2009_en.pdf]

[[Category:Subsidies and grants]]