The '''Grattan Institute''' in [[Melbourne]], [[Australia]], gives nonpartisan advice and promotes public discussion and understanding on [[public policy]] areas including: 

* [[Cities]][http://www.grattan.edu.au/programs/cities.php] - considerations include [[urban planning]], the idea of [[sustainable cities]] and [[transport]].
* [[Energy]][http://www.grattan.edu.au/programs/energy.php] - considerations include [[renewable energy]], [[energy subsidies]], [[carbon pricing]], [[carbon capture and storage]]. 
* [[Health]][http://www.grattan.edu.au/programs/health.php]
* [[Education]][http://www.grattan.edu.au/programs/education.php][http://www.grattan.edu.au/programs/higher_education.php] - key to innovation.
* [[Productivity growth]][http://www.grattan.edu.au/programs/productivity.php] - note that this is an important aspect of [[economics]] for [[sustainability]], as an educated, productive workforce is likely to be more focused on services as a proportion of the economy, and more efficient at resource use; however a greater economy is still generally a larger user of [[natural resources]] and emitter of [[greenhouse gases]], unless it deliberately uses chooses to use its wealth differently. 
* [http://www.grattan.edu.au/programs/aust_over.php Australian Perspectives] - focused on [[quality of life]] in Australia, which depends not only on [[economics]] but on non-economic factors. 

These areas were chosen on the basis that [[evidence-based research]] was believed to have an important role in improving public debate on these matters.<ref name="grattan.edu.au">[http://www.grattan.edu.au/programs.html "Grattan Programs"]. Grattan Institute.</ref> Grattan Institute also makes provision for experts in other fields to work under its umbrella.<ref name="grattan.edu.au"/>

It is a [[think tank]] and was established in 2008, as a result of a bipartisan effort by former and retiring politicians from the Australian Labor and Australian Liberal parties. It is funded by Australian federal and state governments and corporations.<ref>Ruth Williams. [http://www.theage.com.au/business/wellheeled-think-tank-vows-to-be-ideologyfree-20081109-5kwv.html "Well-heeled think tank vows to be ideology free"].  ''The Age''. November 10, 2008. </ref>

It publishes reports<ref>[http://www.grattan.edu.au/publications.php Publications]</ref> and holds events<ref>[http://www.grattan.edu.au/events.php Grattan Events]</ref> for public discussion of these issues.

== Footnotes ==
{{reflist}}


==External links==

* [http://www.grattan.edu.au Grattan Institute homepage]

[[Category:Australian organisations]]
[[Category:Sustainable cities]]