Industrial Gravity Separator Machinery with rectangular deck can be used to separate any type of dry bulk particles that are similar in size and shape but differs in weight. Industrial Specific Gravity Separator consists of a rectangular deck for separation efficiency and accuracy. Gravity separator machine is facilitated with dynamically balanced multiple fan system that is individually adjustable giving the necessary control through different air settings, to accomplish the accurate weighing necessary.

Agriculture Processing Gravity Separator machines are designed in such a way that the lighter particles move to the entire length of the deck, producing the cleanest light and heavy product fraction available and deck is fluidized by pressurized with positive air system. Agro product processed by the grain gravity separator is stratified into different layers with different specific weight according to the fluid bed principle. It is utilized after all the cleaning operations have been finished.


'''Salient features of Industrial Gravity Separator Machine:'''

<br>•	Can be used to separate any type of dry bulk particles that are similar in size and shape but differs in weight.
<br>•	Consists of a rectangular deck for separation efficiency and accuracy.
<br>•	Lighter particles move to the entire length of the deck, producing the cleanest light and heavy product fraction available.
<br>•	Dynamically balanced multiple fan system is individually adjustable giving the necessary control through different air settings to accomplish the accurate weighing necessary.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! DIMENTION(L*W*H)
! MOTOR
! WEIGHT
! CAPACITY
! SIEVE DIMENSION
|-
| 1825x1300x1200 mm
| 3.7 KW
| 700 KG
| 1.5 TPH
| 1600x800 (LxW) mm
|-
| 2600x1850x1380 mm
| 7.5 KW
| 1000 KG
| 3.0 TPH
| 2350x1060 (LxW) mm
|}

<br>''Note: Dimensions and Weight are approximate values. Can be differ according to customization.''

<br>Sifter International is the Leading Manufacturers, Exporter at Faridabad, India. We are Manufacturing Gravity Separator Machines. Our Separators used to separate and standardize Coffee, Peanuts, Corn, Peas, Rice, Wheat, Sesame and other Food Grains.




== External links ==

* [http://www.clickindia.com/detail.php?id=134808635] Industrial Gravity Separator Machinery

[[Category:Tools]]