'''Greenwash''' is where a company, government, or other organization advertises positive environmental practices while acting in the opposite way.<ref>See [[Wikipedia:Greenwash]] for more descriptive and encyclopedic information. The planned focus of this Appropedia page is on discussing examples of greenwash and ways of combating it.</ref> This may be a matter of "spin" or outright dishonesty.

== Cheating on efficiency tests ==

A device has been installed by manufacturers in refrigerators to cheat energy efficiency tests. The device detects test conditions (typically 22 degrees Celsius) and activates the energy-saving mode, creating an impression of lower running costs and energy usage. The devices have been banned in Australia since 2007, but one manufacturer was caught using the device in 2010.<ref>[http://www.smh.com.au/environment/green-fridge-labelled-a-fraud-20100316-qclx.html Green fridge labelled a fraud]</ref>

== Problems with Life cycle analysis ==
[[Life cycle analysis]] is often performed in decision making on what new products to invest in. It involves comparing some competing suppliers, their different products of this certain type of desired product. They should really need to make the analysis much larger, more heuristic{{w|Heuristic}} and think carefully about if they can choose another type of product or service that is better and perhaps can replace the need entirely for the product type they intended to purchase, or one type of product with several combined functions and options can replace certain product types. There are also possibilites for doing any other measure in the organisation that can reduce the need for purchase of new products.

==Footnotes==
<references/>


== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:Greenwash]]
* [[Wikipedia:Life cycle assessment]]
* [http://rationalwiki.org/wiki/Greenwashing RationalWiki: Greenwashing]
*[http://en.ekopedia.org/Greenwashing Ekopedia on Greenwashing]

[[Category:Business]]
[[Category:Sustainability]]
[[Category:Advertising]]