<center>
{{#widget:Google Gadget
|url=http://www.google.com/cse/api/010475139252798918668/cse/lb7juieioa0/gadget
|title=Green Development Wikis Search
|width=320
|height=76
}}
</center>
<center><small>If the search box isn't displaying correctly here, it's a temporary problem. See [http://www.google.com/cse/home?cx=010475139252798918668:lb7juieioa0 Green Development Wikis Search] in the meantime.</small></center>


This searches [[Green Development Wikis search engine/included#Included sites list|about 39 sites]], including [[Appropedia]], [[Wikipedia]], and all the major [[green wiki]]s.

''Updates:''
* ''[http://climatelab.org ClimateLab] added, 27 Oct 2011.''
* ''[http://www.gardenology.org Gardenology] added, 17 Feb 2011.''

== Notes ==

The emphasis is on wikis with clear [[license]]s that allow collaboration and sharing, and a focus on real solutions. Licenses used: 
* Ecoreality and BioEnergyWiki are under a non-commercial license, [[CC-BY-NC-SA]].
* CampusClimateNetwork.org, Wikigender and Wikiprogress are under GFDL - the same key principles as [[CC-BY-SA]], but not legally compatible.
* Most of the rest are under the [[CC-BY-SA]] licenses. (Perhaps not all - this hasn't been checked in detail yet).

== Details ==

=== Included and excluded sites ===

* [[Green Development Wikis Search/included]] - if you know of a site with suitable content, please add it here. ''Last updated 8 July 2011.''
* [[Green Development Wikis Search/excluded]] - any non-wiki or non-suitable sections of the included sites (e.g. a blog or static site). If you find non-wiki content, please list it here.

=== Settings ===

"Search engine keywords": ''sustainability development climate design''

== External links ==

* [http://blogs.appropedia.org/green-development-wikis-search/ '''Green Development Wikis Search'''] - just another interface, if you prefer it. Also gives the embed code.
* [http://www.google.com/cse/home?cx=010475139252798918668%3Alb7juieioa0 The same search at Google].


[[Category:Custom searches]]