'''Greenhouse gas emissions''' ('''GHG''' or '''GHG's'''are the main cause of human-induced [[global warming]]. These substances trap the sun's heat (the [[greenhouse effect]]) and increase the heat of the earth. The main greenhouse gases of concern are [[carbon dioxide]] and [[methane]], but other gas emissions are of concern, notable [[CFCs]] .

They can be reduced through:
*Addressing energy use:
**reducing the amount of energy used (though [[energy efficiency]] and/or [[simple living]])
**Using more [[renewable energy]]
**Using fossil fuels, and practicing [[carbon sequestration]] (see [[carbon sequestration]]{{w|carbon sequestration}}), i.e. putting the CO2 underground. 
**Using fossil fuels, and practicing [[carbon offset]] (see [[carbon offset]]{{w|carbon offset}}). (On a large scale, this requires 
**Using [[nuclear energy]], which released much less carbon dioxide - while there are enormous safety, security and environmental hazards from nuclear energy, it has been proposed by some as part of the solution to global warming.  Also the availability of the ore to extract nuclear material from is of course available only in limited numbers on our planet.  Estimations of availability compared to the (growth) requirements of energy indicate this will only buy not even a decade of additional power.  It is questionable wether the further dispersing of this material, its waste problematic in a more and more destabilizing world due to the [[global climate destabilization]] is a smart thing to do.
*Addressing [[agriculture]] and any other source of greenhouse gases, especially methane.   Methane contributes 23 times as much to the greenhouse effect as the same amount of [[CO2]], in spite of having the same amount of carbon per molecule, or per unit volume.  For this reason, removing, preventing or capturing 1 ton of CH3, earns 23 [[CO2e-certificate]]s under the [[UNFCCC]] [[emissions trading]] system.

Greenhouse gases include methane, carbon dioxide, CFCs and water vapour. They are called green house gases because they trap the infrared radiation coming from sun and doesn't let it go outside the earth, thereby creating a greenhouse effect. To the surprise of many, methane is the most dangerous greenhouse gas. Livestock farming is one of the major causes of its emission. This contributes around 20% more than transport and power sector towards global warming.

{{stub}}


== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:Greenhouse gases]]

[[Category:Air pollution]]
[[Category:Climate change]]