'''Green manure''' is a type of [[cover crop]] grown primarily to add [[nutrients]] and [[organic matter]] to the [[soil]]. Typically, a green manure crop is grown for a specific period, and then [[plow]]ed under and incorporated into the soil as they decompose. Green manures usually perform [[multiple functions]], that include soil improvement and soil protection. They may help to reduce the need for [[synthetic fertilisers]].

* [[Legume|Leguminous]] green manures such as [[clover]] contain [[Nitrogen fixation|nitrogen-fixing]] [[symbiotic]] [[bacteria]] in [[root nodules]] that fix atmospheric nitrogen in a form that plants can use.
* Green manures increase the percentage of organic matter ([[biomass]]) in the soil, thereby improving [[water]] retention, aeration, and other soil characteristics.
*The [[root]] systems of some varieties of green manure grow deep in the soil and bring up nutrient resources unavailable to shallower-rooted crops.
* Common cover crop functions of [[weed]] suppression and prevention of soil [[erosion]] and compaction are often also taken into account when selecting and using green manures.
*Some green manure crops, when allowed to [[flower]], provide [[forage]] for pollinating [[insect]]s.

== Plants used as green manure ==

=== Temperate climates ===

*Winter cover crops such as [[oat]]s or [[rye]] have long been used as green manures. 
*[[Mustard plant|Mustard]]
*[[Clover]]
*[[Fenugreek]] 
*[[Lupin]]
*[[Winter tares]] 
*[[Winter field beans]]
*Velvet Bean (Mucuna pruriens) Common in the southern US during the early part of the 20th century, before being replaced by soybeans. Popular today in most tropical countries, especially in Central America where it is the main green manure used in Slash/Mulch farming practices.

=== Tropical climates ===

*Ferns of the genus [[mosquito fern|''Azolla'']] have been used as a green manure in southeast [[Asia]].
*''[[Sesbania rostrata]]'' has been introduced as green manure crop before rainy season [[rice]] in the rice [[soybean]] system.  The [[legume]] is broadcasted in mid May and incorporated into soil after 55-60 days. Rice is then transplanted 7-10 days after Sesbania incorporation.  The on-station studies and on-farm participatory experimentation show convincing results of increasing rice yield over 20%, which is  equivalent to yield obtained by applying 54 kgN/ha.  After two years of farmer participation, the area planted to ''Sesbania rostrata'' in the test site as green manure crop has been increased three folds.

==Green manures in organic farming==

[[Organic farming]] relies on soil [[health]] and cycling of nutrients through the soil using natural processes, such as the addition of [[animal]] manures. If animal manures are not available, in a stockless rotation, green manures perform a vital function of fertilization.

== See also ==

* [[Compost tea]]: green manure can be used to make this
* [[Cover crops]]
* [[Azolla for Aquatic Nitrogen]]
* [[Comfrey]]

==References==
{{reflist}}

== External links ==

* [http://www.attra.org/attra-pub/covercrop.html Overview of cover crops and green manures]
* [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i3bzo_tFdIM Green manure as a sustainable organic fertilizer -video by Helen Atthowe]

{{attrib permawiki|Green manure}}
{{attrib wikipedia|Green manure}}

[[Category:Composting]]
[[Category:Plants]]