{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Hansen ventilator.gif
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Newborns that are unable to breathe on their own require mechanical assistance to breathe in order to survive long enough to develop their lungs. The cost of mechanical ventilators however, precludes their extensive use in resource-limited settings.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Hansen Ventilator reduces the price and complexity of ventilators by using columns of water to control the pressure of the air instead of complex mechanical mechanisms. The ventilator can be created from off-the-shelf components and costs a fraction of the price of conventional ventilators.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Dr. Tom Hansen and Peter Richardson.
*Manufacturing: Seattle Children's Hospital

==Testing/Implementation ==
Animal trials began in 2010 to determine the device's efficiency. Currently, the device awaits approval for clinical trials and manufacturing in India.

==Funding Source==
This device was initially funded by Seattle's Children Hospital and currently there is a partnership with PATH in Seattle for field testing.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Diblasi, R. M., Zignego, J. C., Smith, C. V., Hansen, T. N., & Richardson, C. P. (2010). Effective Gas Exchange in Paralyzed Juvenile Rabbits Using Simple, Inexpensive Respiratory Support Devices. Pediatric Research, 68(6). Link available [http://journals.lww.com/pedresearch/Fulltext/2010/12000/Effective_Gas_Exchange_in_Paralyzed_Juvenile.13.aspx here].

Diblasi, R. M., Zignego, J. C., Smith, C. V., Hansen, T. N., Richardson, C. P., Tang, D. M., & Hildebrandt, J. (2010). Noninvasive Respiratory Support of Juvenile Rabbits by High-Amplitude Bubble Continuous Positive Airway Pressure. Pediatric Research, 67(6). Link available [http://journals.lww.com/pedresearch/Fulltext/2010/06000/Noninvasive_Respiratory_Support_of_Juvenile.10.aspx here].

===Other internally generated reports===
Seattle Children’s. (2010). High hopes for low-tech ventilator. Link available [http://www.seattlechildrens.org/healthcare-professionals/aar/2010/highlights/high-hopes-for-low-tech-ventilator/ here].

Seattle Children's. (n.d.) Hansen Ventilator. Link available [http://www.seattlechildrens.org/research/developmental-therapeutics/neonatal-respiratory-support-technologies-team/hansen-ventilator/ here].

Seattle Children's. (2010). GAPPS and the Hansen Ventilator.  Link available [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PF_rruLAm0Q here].

===Externally generated reports===
Northwest Association for Biomedical Research. (2011.) Thomas Hansen, M.D., 2011 Dr. Alvin J. Thompson Award winner. Link available [http://nwabr.org/members/annual-fundraising/al-thompson-award-winners/thomas-hansen-md here].

PATH. (2010). Technology solutions for global health.  PDF available [http://www.path.org/publications/files/TS_update_lung_newborn.pdf here].

Timmerman L. (2010.) Seattle Children’s CEO, between meetings, invents cheap ventilator to save babies worldwide. Link available [http://www.xconomy.com/seattle/2010/08/25/seattle-childrens-ceo-between-meetings-invents-cheap-ventilator-to-save-babies-worldwide/ here].

===IP and copyright===
US Patent application number 12/899,177.
Publication number: US 2011/0073112 A1 
Filing date: October 6, 2010

European Patent application: EP2345444 
Kind Code:  A1