{{Template:Are You Ready? An In-depth Guide to Citizen Preparedness}}
* [http://www.fema.gov/pdf/areyouready/technohazards.pdf Technological Hazards] -- 990KB PDF
Chemicals are found everywhere. They purify drinking water, increase crop production, and simplify household chores. But chemicals also can be hazardous to humans or the environment if used or released improperly. Hazards can occur during production, storage, transportation, use, or disposal. You and your community are at risk if a chemical is used unsafely or released in harmful amounts into the environment where you live, work, or play.

Chemical manufacturers are one source of hazardous materials, but there are many others, including service stations, hospitals, and hazardous materials waste sites.
== Take Protective Measures ==

'''Before a Hazardous Materials Incident '''
Many communities have Local Emergency Planning Committees (LEPCs) whose responsibilities include collecting information about hazardous materials in the community and making this information available to the public upon request. The LEPCs also are tasked with developing an emergency plan to prepare for and respond to chemical emergencies in the community. Ways the public will be notified and actions the public must take in the event of a release are part of the plan. Contact the LEPCs to find out more about chemical hazards and what needs to be done to minimize the risk to individuals and the community from these materials. The local emergency management office can provide contact information on the LEPCs.
You should add the following supplies to your disaster kit:
* Plastic sheeting.
* Duct tape.
* Scissors.

During a Hazardous Materials Incident
Listen to local radio or television stations for detailed information and instructions. Follow the instructions carefully. You should stay away from the area to minimize the risk of contamination. Remember that some toxic chemicals are odorless.
{| cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5" border="1"
| If you are:
| Then:
|-
| Asked to evacuate
| Do so immediately.
|-
| Caught Outside
| Stay upstream, uphill, and upwind! In general, try to go at least one-half mile (usually 8-10 city blocks) from the danger area. Do not walk into or touch any spilled liquids, airborne mists, or condensed solid chemical deposits.
|-
| In a motor vehicle
| Stop and seek shelter in a permanent building. If you must remain in your car, keep car windows and vents closed and shut off the air conditioner and heater.
|-
| Requested to stay indoors
| Close and lock all exterior doors and windows. Close vents, fireplace dampers, and as many interior doors as possible.<br /><br />Turn off air conditioners and ventilation systems. In large buildings, set ventilation systems to 100 percent recirculation so that no outside air is drawn into the building. If this is not possible, ventilation systems should be turned off.<br /><br />Go into the pre-selected shelter room. This room should be above ground and have the fewest openings to the outside.<br /><br />Seal the room by covering each window, door, and vent using plastic sheeting and duct tape.<br /><br />Use material to fill cracks and holes in the room, such as those around pipes.
|}

Shelter Safety for Sealed Rooms
Ten square feet of floor space per person will provide sufficient air to prevent carbon dioxide build-up for up to five hours, assuming a normal breathing rate while resting.

However, local officials are unlikely to recommend the public shelter in a sealed room for more than 2-3 hours because the effectiveness of such sheltering diminishes with time as the contaminated outside air gradually seeps into the shelter. At this point, evacuation from the area is the better protective action to take.

Also you should ventilate the shelter when the emergency has passed to avoid breathing contaminated air still inside the shelter.

=== After a Hazardous Materials Incident ===
The following are guidelines for the period following a hazardous materials incident:

* Return home only when authorities say it is safe. Open windows and vents and turn on fans to provide ventilation.
* Act quickly if you have come in to contact with or have been exposed to hazardous chemicals. Do the following:

** Follow decontamination instructions from local authorities. You may be advised to take a thorough shower, or you may be advised to stay away from water and follow another procedure.
** Seek medical treatment for unusual symptoms as soon as possible.
** Place exposed clothing and shoes in tightly sealed containers. Do not allow them to contact other materials. Call local authorities to find out about proper disposal.
** Advise everyone who comes in to contact with you that you may have been exposed to a toxic substance.

* Find out from local authorities how to clean up your land and property.
* Report any lingering vapors or other hazards to your local emergency services office.
* Follow the instructions for recovering from a disaster in Part 5.
[[Category:Are You Ready? An In-depth Guide to Citizen Preparedness]]