{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa
|Image=Hemoglobe.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Women during childbearing years are particularly susceptible to anemia.  There are an estimated 100,000 maternal and 600,000 newborn deaths a year due to the blood disorder, with millions more affected. Thus far, it has been difficult to influentially screen for anemia in developing countries because it requires individual testing, a process that is time consuming and unrealistic in low-resource facilities.
 
==Detailed description of the solution==
The Hemoglobe is an inexpensive phone attachment that transforms rural health workers’ phones into non-invasive and prick-free hemoglobinometers. They automatically relay hemoglobin results to a central server in order to map out anemia prevalence and where help is needed most, geographically. This allows for community-based screening and anemia awareness in areas with high prevalence.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Johns Hopkins University Center for Bioengineering Innovation and Design
*Manufacturer location: Baltimore, Maryland USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
2011-2012, Kenya

==Funding Source==
Johns Hopkins University, Finalist in Saving Lives at Birth Competition

==References==

===Other internally generated reports===
Johns Hopkins University. (July 24 2012). Undergraduates’ Cellphone Screening Device for Anemia Wins $250,000 Prize. Retrieved November 13 2013 from [http://releases.jhu.edu/2012/07/24/undergraduates-cellphone-screening-device-for-anemia-wins-250000-prize/ here].

===Externally generated reports===
Saving Lives at Birth. (August 6 2012). HemoGlobe: Revitalizing Maternal Anemia Prevention and Treatment Globally. Retrieved November 13 2013 from [http://savinglivesatbirth.net/summaries/202 here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->