Heritage Breed [[chickens]] produce both eggs and meat. Some are better at producing meat, some at producing eggs. Many are named after the geographical area in which they were developed. They are sometimes know as "dual purpose" chickens. This is in contrast to [[Layer chickens|layers]] and [[meat birds]]. 

==Breeds==

* Andalusian
* Ancona
* Barnevelder
* Catalana
* Crevecoeur
* Delaware
* Dominique
* Dorking - frequently said to have the best tasting meat
* Faverolles
* Hamburg
* Houdan
* La Fleche
* Lakenvelder
* Leghorn (Livorno)
* Marans
* Minorca
* New Hampshire
* Old English Game
* Orpington
* Paduan, AKA Polish
* Penedesenca
* Plymouth Rock
* Rhode Island Reds (Production Reds) are a good all-around bird.  They are very cold and heat tolerant, reliable layers and quite edible when young.  They are not good sitters, meaning they are not as successful hatching out a clutch of eggs as other breeds, like araucanas or banties.  However, you can grow old trying to crack enough banty eggs to feed a dozen people.  A good way to find the breed that works in your area is to just drive down the road and see what other people are raising.  Some people like Buff Orpingtons, others like Barred Rocks.  Coloration might vary, but all chickens are prety much the same.
* Russian Orloff
* Scots Dumpy
* Sicilian Buttercup
* Spitzhauben
* Sussex
* White-faced Black Spanish
* Wyandotte 

[[Category:Chickens]]
[[Category:Elements]]
[[Category:Lists of domesticated animals]]
[[Category:Livestock]]