Substitute for national grid or heavyweight solar with:

* One 80 watt panel connected to a 15 minute AA battery charger (e.g. the new generation Rayovacs)

These items will be connected into a "power pillar" - a walk-up charging station where people come with their empty NIMH batteries, drop them into the charger, wait 15 minutes, then take them home. Assuming a 10 hour charging day, that services 40 sets of batteries.

Each [[Wikipedia:AA battery|AA NiMH battery]] has a capacity of approx 2000 mAh at 1.25V, equivalent to 2.5 VAh. If charger efficiencies are 25% (my guess) then we need about 10 Wh to charge each battery.

80 W for 10 hours is 800 Wh per day or enough to charge 80 batteries a day.


Applications for this system include:

* [[Lighting]]: [[Cold_Cathode_Fluorescent_Lamps|cold cathode fluorescent lights]] (see: http://ledmuseum.candlepower.us/dbright.htm ), LED headlamps, etc.
* Communication: cell phone chargers, FRS-type radios, other battery powered radios etc.
* Entertainment: pretty much any general purpose device can be found in a AA configuration, like televisions (http://www.amazon.com/Casio-TV-980-2-3-Portable-Color/dp/B0000CGCCM)
* Wood [[gasification]] stove (see below)

What won't work:

*Heavy-draw mains appliances (toasters, video projectors)

Financial model:

* $400 for the panel, $100 for the charger and pillar. ($12.50 per household)
* $200 for 80 fast charge AA batteries say 4 each for 20 households.
* $100 or 20 lighting units.
* $700 total or $35 each for 20 households.

$50 per household should comfortably buy everything required for basic electrical services. A bare bones system (lighting and stoves only) would be about $12.50 per household because the cost of the panel, charger and pillar could be split between 80 households.

[[Category:Hexayurt project]]
[[Category:Solar]]