== Problem ==

Chronic wounds such as pressure ulcers, leg ulcers and diabetic wounds are a common problem among older people and alternative methods to the current time-consuming and costly practices of wound management in the nursing home need to be identified.<ref>Van der Weyden EA.T [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&amp;db=pubmed&amp;dopt=Abstract&amp;list_uids=14700007 The use of honey for the treatment of two patients with pressure ulcers.] Br J Community Nurs. 2003 Dec;8(12):S14-20.</ref>

==Summary==

[[Honey]] has a potent antibacterial activity and is very effective in clearing infection in wounds and protecting
wounds from becoming infected. It also has a debriding action, an anti-inflammatory action, and a
stimulatory effect on granulation and epithelialisation. <ref>[http://bio.waikato.ac.nz/pdfs/honeyresearch/potential.pdf The potential for using honey to treat wounds infected with MRSA and VRE.] Allen, K. L., Hutchinson, G., and Molan, P.C. Presented at the First World Wound Healing Congress, 10-13 September 2000, Melbourne,
Australia</ref>

Raw honey is used. The action of the honey varies widely, and researchers have found particular honeys, including a certain Australian bush honey, to be especially effective.{{fact}}

==Developers==
[http://sci.waikato.ac.nz/staff/biol/pmolan Professor Peter Molan, MBE]

==Website==
* [http://bio.waikato.ac.nz/honey/ Honey Research Unit]

==References==
<references/>

* J Altern Complement Med. 2003 Apr;9(2):267-73. [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&amp;db=pubmed&amp;dopt=Abstract&amp;list_uids=12804080 The effect of dilution on the rate of hydrogen peroxide production in honey and its implications for wound healing.] Bang LM, Buntting C, Molan P.</
* Trop Doct. 1980 Apr;10(2):91. [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&amp;db=pubmed&amp;dopt=Abstract&amp;list_uids=7385341 The use of honey in the treatment of infected wounds.] Armon PJ.
* JAMA. 1973 May 7;224(6):905. [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&amp;db=pubmed&amp;dopt=Abstract&amp;list_uids=4739699 Honey for decubitus ulcers.] Bromfield R.

==See also==
[[Wheelchair seating]]

[[Category:Herbal remedies]]