{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality 
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Of the four million babies worldwide who die within the first month of life, a quarter die within 24 hours of birth. This is often because the infants are not provided with a consistent heat until they have the body fat and metabolic rate to stay warm. This is especially true for low-resource settings, where the majority of children are born at home and do not have the resources to provide their newborn with the necessary care immediately after birth.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This hot water bottle incubator utilizes simple items, a water bottle, hot water, and blankets, to create a form of an incubator. The rigged incubator involves filling a plastic water bottle with hot water and placing them under blankets to help keep premature babies warm. So far, there has not been professional input regarding the likely effectiveness of the device.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Alice Sebour, a local woman from a slum in Kenya
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location: Nairobi, Kenya

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Kenya
 
==Funding Source==

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===

===Other internally generated reports===
===Externally generated reports===
TBA-devised hot water bottle incubator (2013, January 11). Retrieved October 31, 2013 from [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/tba-devised-hot-water-bottle-incubator here]

Sessay, Isha. Homemade incubator helps premature babies in slum. (2011, January 2011). Cable News Network. Retrieved October 31, 2013 from
[http://www.cnn.com/2011/WORLD/africa/01/17/homemade.incubator/ here.]

===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->