{{How to
 |title=Tangram Puzzle How-to
 |File:FPT 1.jpg||1 |Collect materials. Find a flat piece of trash (FPT), styrofoam or cardboard works well. Then obtain scissors or a knife that will be able to cut through the trash.
 |File: FPT 2.jpg ||2 | Cut a side of the FPT that will be one side of a square. Use the cut piece to measure the other sides of the square.
 |File: FPT 3.jpg ||3 | Cut all the sides until...
 |File: FPT 4.jpg||4 | you have a completed square.
 |File: FPT 5.jpg||5 | Cut the two opposite corners diagonally.
 |File: FPT 6.jpg||6 | Then cut across.
 |File: FPT 7.jpg||7 | Put one of the triangles aside, and cut the other triangle in half to form two smaller triangles.
 |File: FPT 8.jpg| |8 | This is what you should have so far.
 |File: FPT 9.jpg||9 | Set aside the two small triangles. Fold the big triangle as shown. If you cannot fold the FPT just estimate and skip to step 10.
 |File:FPT 10.jpg| |10 | Cut the big triangle as shown.
 |File: FPT 11.jpg||11 | Cut the big triangle again to form the three pieces shown.
 |File: FPT 12.jpg| |12 | Pick up the piece to the right and cut as shown, forming a square and an even smaller triangle.
 |File: FPT 13.jpg| |13 | Pick up the piece to the left and cut as shown, forming a parallelogram and a triangle.
 |File: FPT 14.jpg| |14 | Putting back together and....you made a tangram puzzle!
 |File: FPT 15.jpg| |15 | Here is just one of the many possible images you can make.
}}

{{Gallery
|title=Examples
|width=130
|height=135
|padding=5
|lines=0
|align=center
|File:Horse.jpg|
|File:Bird.jpg|
|File:Person Sitting.jpg|
|File:House.jpg|
|File:Cat.jpg|
|File:Dancer.jpg|
|File:Rider.jpg|
|File:Camel.jpg|
|File:Rabbit.jpg|
|File:Balancer.jpg|}}

[[Category:Games]]
[[Category:How tos]]