==Introduction==
This page lists different home energy retrofits that can improve energy efficiency in standard US homes. Many people in the United States live in homes that were built in the last century. According to the EPA, homes built before the 20th century were generally more efficient. <ref>http://epa.gov/region5/sustainable/energyadvice.html</ref> There are many ways you can save money and energy in your home.
''The Homeowner's Guide to Saving Energy''.<ref> Price, B. , & Price, J. (1976). Homeowner's Guide to Saving Energy. Blue Ridge Summit, Pa.: G/L Tab Books.</ref>

==Start with a home energy Audit==
A home energy audit is a way in which you can actually look at what areas of your home you are using, and possibly losing energy. While you could always hire a professional to do this, we recommend you learn how to do this yourself and learn how to do it right<ref>Stephens, B. , Carter, E. , Gall, E. , Earnest, C. , Walsh, E. , et al. (2011). Home energy-efficiency retrofits. Environmental Health Perspectives, 119(7), A283-a284.</ref>. It is your home we are talking about. Here is a [http://energy.gov/energysaver/articles/do-it-yourself-home-energy-audits good website] that talks about a lot of the things you should keep in mind when doing a home energy audit.

Additional sites:
*http://energy.gov/home-energy-audits
*[[how to do an electrical energy audit]]
*[[Observational U.S. home energy assessment]]
*[[How to use a KillAWatt meter]]
*[[Phantom power reducing power bars]]
*[[Phantom power reduction (smart power bars)]]

Also, learn the importance of [[phantom loads]]

==Retrofits==
===Windows=== 
Your windows may be one of the biggest contributing factors as to why your house is too cold in the winter and/or too hot in the summer.<ref>http://www.nfrc.org/documents/u-factor.pdf</ref>
There are many different things to try on your windows other than just buying new ones. 
Individuals might find some things more cost effective than others such as [[thermal curtains]] or film on your windows.<ref>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Window_insulation_film</ref>

Use these helpful tools:
*[[Windows]]

*[[Smart windows]]

*[[Recycled Glass and Windows]]

===Lighting===
One of the simplest ways to save a copious amount of energy is switching your incandescent light bulb to a compact fluorescent lamp (CFL). A 15W [[CFL]] is capable of providing just as much light as a 60W incandescent, while consuming just one fourth of the amount of energy. <ref>http://www.mnn.com/earth-matters/translating-uncle-sam/stories/cfl-vs-incandescent-battle-of-the-bulb</ref>

*[[CFL]]
*[[A Method for Cutting Bottles Light Bulbs and Fluorescent Tubes]]
*[[Fluorescent bulbs]]
*[[LED lighting]]
*[[Original:Grid connection]]
*[[CCAT energy conservation]]
*[[Linear fluorescent retrofit (T12 to T8)]]
*[[Skylights]]
*[[Smart windows]]
*[[Solar charged flashlight]]
*[[Street lighting Analysis]]
*[[Heliostats]]

===Water===
The average US homes wastes thousands of gallons of water a year.
<ref>http://www.epa.gov/WaterSense/pubs/fixleak.html</ref>
<ref>http://www.jetsongreen.com/2011/04/home-water-waste-info-graphic.html</ref>
There are many things to know and ways to save, depending on your budget and how much you are willing to do. <ref> Save water, save energy. (2002). Professional Safety, 47(11), 45-45. Retrieved from http://ezproxy.humboldt.edu/login?url=http://search.proquest.com/docview/200389992?accountid=11532 </ref>
*[[1.6 GPM or less low-flow shower heads]]
*[[Ultra low flush]]
*[[Glossary_of_sustainability_terms#I|If it's yellow let it mellow]]
*[[Composting toilets]]
*[[Faucet Aerator]]

===Insulation===
Insulation can be a huge help in saving the energy that you are already using but that is being lost by not insulating your home well.

*[[House insulation]]

*[[Thermal insulation]]

*[[Building Insulation ECM]]

*[[US natural insulation comparison]]

*[[Cotton insulation]]

*[[Natural wool insulation]]

*[[VOCs in fiberglass insulation]]

*[[Cellulose insulation]]

*[[Ceiling insulation out of recycled Tetra pack at Pedregal]]

*[[Samoa Hostel Insulation Station]]

== See also ==

* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Energy_audit

* This article from the wall street journal has some interesting things to say. <ref>http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704575304575296243891721972.html</ref>

* Check out this interesting book as well. <ref>http://www1.eere.energy.gov/consumer/tips/pdfs/energy_savers.pdf</ref>

== Notes and references ==
{{Reflist}}

[[Category: Engr308 Technology and the Environment]]
[[Category: Energy audit]]