{{MOST}}
[[category: MOST methods]]

Recommended group method: [[MOST Encryption method]]
=Strong Encryption=
==Initial set up==

To set up encryption on your personal computer following the GPGP standard do the following:
# Get [http://www.mozilla.org/en-US/ Firefox], which is an open source web browser
# Get [http://www.gnupg.org/download/ GnuPG]- current version is 2.0 - check the integrity - (e.g. SHA1 checksum)
# Install it: The simplest way to compile this package in linux is:
## Open your terminal
## `cd' to the directory containing the package's source code and type `./configure' to configure the package for your system.
## Type `make' to compile the package.
## Optionally, type `make check' to run any self-tests that come with the package.
## Type `make install' to install the programs and any data files and documentation.






=Weak Encryption=
==Initial set up==

To set up encryption on your gmail account do the following:
# Get [http://www.mozilla.org/en-US/ Firefox], which is an open source web browser
# Get [http://www.greasespot.net/ Grease Monkey] and add it to Firefox [https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/greasemonkey/ here]. Greasemonkey is a Firefox extension that allows you to customize the way webpages look and function.
# Get [http://www.langenhoven.com/code/emailencrypt/gmailencrypt.php Gmail Encrypt script] - here is direct [http://www.langenhoven.com/code/emailencrypt/gmailencrypt.user.js link]

==Next steps==
* Create a public and private key following instructions [http://www.langenhoven.com/code/emailencrypt/gmailencrypt.php here]
** Choose two prime numbers from this [http://primes.utm.edu/lists/small/1000.txt list]
** Share your public key with people you want to communicate with. Keep your private key private.
* Restart Firefox and reopen Gmail and you can get started.

== Warning ==
This is not super hardcore encryption. It is beatable but probably enough to be a major irritant to dissuade most people from reading your email. If you need more solid encryption you will need to cut and paste from PGP: at http://www.pgpi.org/ or http://www.gnupg.org/

* [http://howto.cnet.com/8301-11310_39-10434684-285/want-really-secure-gmail-try-gpg-encryption/ Details from CNet]