{{QASpage}}

==How to Connect from First Install==
# Install ASUS drivers from the included CD. To do this, insert the CD and click "AutoStart" if the splash screen doesnt appear. Click the topmost option (''install drivers''). Select the option to create a desktop icon.
# Restart computer.
# Insert ASUS USB-N device into computer.
# Click on the ''ASUS WLAN Control Center'' desktop icon to start the setup and find the network. If this icon  was not properly created, go to ''Start Menu -> All Programs -> ASUS Utility -> WLAN Card -> ASUS WLAN Control Center'' on windows.
# Click the ''Survey'' button along the left-hand side.
# Click your network to connect to. It will either connect (if theres no password), in which case you are done and online (stop here), or tell you the settings are wrong (continue to next steps).

===How to configure a wireless password with ASUS WLAN Control Center===
# Click ''Config'' along the lefthand side.
# Click ''Basic'' along the top.
# Ensure the ''Network Name'' is correct, or blank.
# Click the ''Encryption'' tab along the top.
# Enter the appropriate type of encryption  ''our settings are WEP''
# Enter the appropriate type of network key format and length.
# Enter your passphrase beside ''Key 1''  ''if this worked your key will be hidden behind *** symbols''
# Click ''Apply'' along the lefthand side.
# Click ''OK'' along the lefthand.
# Save the profile as default if prompted.
# Restart ASUS WLAN Control Center if it closed.
# Click ''Survey'' along the lefthand side.
# Click on your network to connect.
# Tada internets.

== How to ensure this starts when Windows starts==
Another good idea is to have your internet all started up by default (leave the USB adapter in the machine).
# In the QuickLaunch taskbar you should see a new icon with a file, 4 dots, and a globe.
# Right-click on it and click ''Preferences'' in the menu that pops up.
# Ensure ''Launch Control Center on Startup'' is ticked. This will start the program and should automatically connect to the network you saved in the previous section.
# Ensure ''Remove system tray icon if wireless adapter is not found'' is not ticked (this will let you easily see that your internet isnt working)
# Click ''ok''.
# Tada internets when windows starts.


[[Category:How tos]]
[[Category:Queens Applied Sustainability Group Lab Protocols]]