{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Waterborne diseases 
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, South America
|Image=Hti hydropack.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
More than one billion people lack access to safe drinking water. Because of this, waterborne illness has become one of the leading causes of death, especially in the developing world. Natural disasters, such as earthquakes or floods claim most of their victims by dysentery resulting from contaminated water supplies.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The HydroPack is a 12 fl. oz. (355 ml) pouch that can be placed into a water source where it can self-hydrate. Once it is hydrated, the user punctures it with a straw and can drink. Conveniently, the pouches can be left overnight to hydrate. 

==Relevance to developing country settings==
The HydroPack can be inserted into disaster situations and implemented successfully because it is very portable. The device uses forward osmosis which allows it to take advantage of a wide range of water sources. It is essentially non-clogging, unlike other water filtration or purification technologies, so very turbid water sources can be used.

==Designed by==
*Designed and manufactured by: Hydration Technology Innovations (HTI)
*Manufacturer location: Scottsdale, Arizona USA
 
==Funding Source==
This device has private funding sources.

==References==
===Internally generated reports===
HTI. (2010) Humanitarian Water: About. HTI Water Division. Link available [http://www.htiwater.com/divisions/humanitarian/about.html here].

HTI. (2011, January 13). HTI Hydropack to be centerpiece of Kenya water disaster relief demonstration: demonstration expected to validate new paradigm in emergency response; render bottled water obsolete in disaster-relief. PDF available [http://www.htiwater.com/assets/pdf/news_Kenyapilotdemonstration_01132011.pdf here].