'''Humanure''' is a term coined by Joseph Jenkins to discuss the composting of human [[feces]]. His ''The Humanure Handbook'' (1994) advocates the use of this [[organic material|organic]] [[soil]] amendment, provided certain safety precautions are followed.

A summary of the method is as follows:

*Use sawdust to bury manure. Sawdust provides carbon and this balances the nitrogen in the feces. A good carbon-nitrogen balance is needed for composting. The Sawdust also keeps bad smells in and keeps flies away.
*Do not separate urine and feces, as the urine provides moisture the microorganisms need.
*As well as adding the buckets from the toilet to the compost heap, throw on chunky materials like straw. This traps air pockets in the compost heap.
*Optionally, skewer the compost heap with sticks or pipes to provide more aeration.
*Let it sit for a year before using on plants

Humanure is not traditional [[sewage]] that has been processed by [[sewage treatment]] facilities, which may include waste from [[industry|industrial]] and other sources; rather, it is the combination of [[feces]] and [[urine]] with paper and additional [[carbon]] material. Humanure is also different from [[night soil]], which is raw human refuse spread on crops.

For for a discussion of the science and theory of composting toilets see [[Composting toilets]] for case studies and how-tos, see the [[:Category:Composting toilets]] pages.

== External links ==
* [http://www.weblife.org/humanure/  'The Humanure Handbook'] (Webbook)
* [http://humanurehandbook.com/ humanurehandbook.com]

{{stub}}
[[Category:Sanitation]]