The United Nations Human Development Index (HDI) is a tool containing three dimensions and four indicators aimed at placing people and their capabilities at the centre of assessments of a country's development.<ref name="un">http://hdr.undp.org/en/content/human-development-index-hdi</ref> This is in place of focusing solely on economic growth alone.

The HDI provides a summary measure of the average achievement of human development via the key dimensions.<ref name="un" /> The three dimensions are: A long and healthy life (health), being knowledgeable (education) and having a decent standard of living.<ref name="un" />

The HDI only captures part of what human development means. It is not able to measure such matters as poverty, inequality, security, gender/disability empowerment, and so forth.<ref name="un" /> The fuller picture can only be obtained through analysing additional indicators and information.<ref name="un" />

== Assessment methods for each dimension ==

The three dimensions are measured as follows:<ref name="un" />
The health dimension: This is measured by focusing on life expectancy at birth.
The education dimension: This is measured by mean of years of schooling for adults aged 25 years and over, and the expected years of schooling for children from school entering age.
The standard of living dimension: This is measured by gross national income (GNI) per capita.

== Sources and citations ==
{{reflist}}
*http://hdr.undp.org/en/content/human-development-index-hdi – home page of the UN Human Development Index

[[Category:International development]]