===Wind Turbine===
*'''Description:''' A wind turbine is moved by the wind which powers the motor to create electricity. 
*'''Justification:''' Wind Turbine technology is [[appropriate]] because it uses the enegry of the wind which is a renewable resource and it doesn't create waste.
*'''Issues:''' It doesn't work without wind. 
*'''Location:''' Real Goods Living Center (Hopland)

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:Windturbinerealgoods.jpg|
}}

===CCAT Wind Turbine===
*'''Description:''' Wind turbine used to supplement the home's solar panels for annual energy generation.
*'''Justification:''' Renewable source of energy production at the site of energy use.  Energy can be produced all year, all day, as long as the wind is blowing at the optimal speed.  
*'''Issues:''' At this certain geographical location, the wind rarely blows at the optimal speed.  Just a mile offshore, with a redwood backdrop, the wind that reached the turbine was usually fairly mellow.  During annual storms, the wind was usually so fierce that the turbine was tripped, so that it wouldn't spin too fast, causing damage to the rotor.
*'''Location:''' Used to be at the [[Campus Center for Appropriate Technology]] (CCAT), Humboldt State University, Arcata CA.
*'''Notes:''' For any questions regarding wind turbines, [[renewable energy]], or other [[appropriate technologies]], feel free to contact CCAT at ccat at humboldt dot com, for information requests please write "Info Request" in the subject line.  Or just give us a call at (707)826-3551.

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:CCATWindTurbine.jpg|
}}

===Instructions===
To add a new AT implementation to this resource, Copy and paste the following into notepad. Make the appropriate edits (replace allcap text) and then paste above the Instructions line in the edit window. 
{{template:Parras AT}}


[[Category:AT Photos]]  
[[Category:Humboldt AT gallery]]
[[Category:Wind power]]