{{Tocright|limit=2}}
This is a collaborative research page for members of [[Engr370 Energy, Technology and Society]] from January to May 2011. 

== Arcata Community Recycling Center  ==

=== Mission  ===
''"ACRC's mission is to promote and demonstrate innovative waste reduction, reuse and recycling strategies as socially and economically beneficial methods to conserve the Earth’s finite resources." '' 

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
*Offers those in the community a location for difficult to recycle items.<ref>http://www.arcatarecycling.org/Recycle/charm.html</ref> 
*Gives out of area population alternative to roadside recycling services. 
*Rewards collection of bottles throughout community by providing compensation. 
*The oldest continually running non-profit recycling center in the country. 

=== Contact Info  ===
:Mark Loughmiller, Executive Director 
:Email mloughmiller@arcatarecycling.org 
:http://www.arcatarecycling.org/ 

== Arcata Educational Farm  ==

=== Mission  ===
:''"Sustainable agriculture awareness and work experience is the Arcata Educational Farm's foremost mission.”'' 

The farm is a CSA (Community-Supported Agriculture establishment) that exemplifies good land stewardship combined with social and economic sustainability; it connects local farmers, students, residents, and interns through hands-on agricultural education and experience. The farm's organic produce is sold as shares to members/shareholders. <ref> http://www.appropedia.org/Category:Arcata_Educational_Farm</ref>

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
*Locally grown food to save on transportation GHG emissions. 
*Organic food production to reduce industrial pesticides and their energy impacts. 
*Solar Water Heater for alternative energy options. 
*Community supported agriculture to reduce industrial operations and their energy impacts. 

=== Contact Info  ===
: Contacts: Farmer Carolan 
: Mailing Address: City of Arcata Recreation Division Attn: Bayside Park 736 F Street Arcata, CA 95521 
: E-Mail: baysideparkfarm@cityofarcata.org OR ArcataEdFarm@yahoo.com 
: Phone Number: Arcata Recreation Division at 707-822-7091 
: Location Address: 930 Old Arcata Road, Arcata, CA 95521 
: Website: http://www.appropedia.org/Category:Arcata_Educational_Farm 
: [http://www.cityofarcata.org/sites/default/files/files/document_center/Parks%20and%20Recreation/Recreation%20Activities/ed%20farm%20application%20form%20%20%2711.pdf Brochure]

== [[Campus Center for Appropriate Technology]] (CCAT) ==

=== Mission ===
'' "CCAT strives to demonstrate that living lightly on the Earth is both practical and rewarding." 
* CCAT seeks to accomplish its mission by:
** Demonstrating appropriate technology in a residential setting
** Providing hands-on experiential learning opportunities to Humboldt State University and the surrounding community
** Collecting and disseminating information about Appropriate Technology
** Examining the ethical and social consequences of technology''

=== Work on energy related issues ===
CCAT is a live-in demonstration home that operates under an ethic of "education by example." This building which houses 3 students full time, has gone through many innovations since it was first introduced in 1978. Today, CCAT has been able to lower its energy consumption to use "less than five percent of the energy consumed by the average U.S. house, produces almost no waste, and serves as a national model for appropriate technology." CCAT works with fifteen HSU classes each year on appropriate technology issues, and some amazing work has come out of it. Some of the energy saving technologies that can be observed in use at CCAT are: solar, pedal powered devices, earthen construction, rainwater catchment, composting, water conservation practices, and much more.  <ref>http://www.ccathsu.com/overview#a-brief-history</ref>

=== Contact Info ===
:Campus Center for Appropriate Technology
:Contact Attn: Co-Directors
:1 Harpst St. Arcata, CA 95521 USA
:ccathsu@gmail.com or (707) 826-3551  
:http://www.ccathsu.com/

== Community Alliance with Family Farms  ==

=== Mission  ===
''"The Community Alliance with Family Farmers advocates for California family farmers and sustainable agriculture."'' 

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
*Strong supporter of local family farming legislation. 
*Producer of "Buy Fresh, Buy Local" information to identify locations to purchase locally produced products. 
*Supports water quality and efficiency measures that support both farmers and the environment. 
*CAFF was the only statewide agricultural organization to support AB 32, recognizing the significance of climate change issues.

=== Contact Info  ===
:Michelle Wyler 
:1385 8th Street Suite B 
:Arcata, CA 95521 
:707-826-0233 
:michelle@caff.org 
:http://www.caff.org/index.shtml

== Democracy Unlimited of Humboldt County (DUHC)  ==

=== Mission  ===
''"Democracy Unlimited of Humboldt County (DUHC) educates citizens about the illegitimate seizure of our authority to govern ourselves. We design and implement grassroots strategies that exercise democratic power over corporations and governments. We seek to create a truly democratic society by provoking a non-violent popular uprising against corporate rule in Humboldt County that can serve as a model for other communities across the United States."''

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
Although DUHC is not an organization focusing on energy issues, they are involved in many projects that are related to energy. For example, they gave the thumbs down on prop 16 stating that it "...is quite literally a power grab, funded by Pacific Gas &amp; Electric for the purpose of protecting its near monopoly from public sector competition." Doing work that focuses on getting the political power back to the people, where many believe it should be, could also result in the side affect of shifting peoples attitudes and practices regarding the use, distribution and production of energy towards a more sustainable/democratic paradigm.

=== Contact Info  ===
:Democracy Unlimited of Humboldt County
:P.O. Box 610     
:Eureka, California, 95502-0610
:(707) 269-0984  
:http://duhc.org 

== EPIC  ==

=== Mission  ===
''"The Environmental Protection Information Center (EPIC) works to protect and restore ancient forests, watersheds, coastal estuaries, and native species in Northern California. EPIC uses an integrated, science-based approach, combining public education, citizen advocacy, and strategic litigation." '' 

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
All energy needs require a resource input of some sort. Epic works to maintain these resources in a sustainable and environmentally friendly manner protecting land, water, biodiversity, forestry and more. 

=== Contact Info  ===
:Scott Greacen 
:epic@wildcalifornia.org 
:145 G Street 
:Arcata, CA 95521 
:(707) 822-7711 
:(707) 822-7712 FAX 
:http://www.wildcalifornia.org/

== Green Campus  ==
=== Mission  ===
''"The Green Campus Program is a student-driven energy efficiency education program that promotes careers in the field, generates actual energy savings, increases awareness of the importance of energy efficiency, and encourages academic infusion of sustainability concepts." ''<ref>http://ase.org/programs/green-campus-program</ref> 

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
At Humboldt State, the Green Campus program works on educating the campus community about energy efficiency and specific changes that residents and faculty alike can implement in their lives that can benefit the environment through energy reduction and water conservation. GC works with the Humboldt Energy Independence Fund to efficiently use the student paid funds across campus through sustainability projects involving energy efficiency, water conservation, and educational awareness. In the past, GC helped to carry out the Redwood Bowl Relighting project and the Library Lighting Retrofit, which have both resulted in large amounts of kilowatt-hour savings that has also lead to decreases in the emissions of carbon dioxide. 

=== Contact Info  ===
:The Green Campus Program 
:1 Harpst Street 
:Arcata, CA 95521 
:greencampushsu@gmail.com 
:http://www.hsugreencampus.com/ 

== Green-Wheels ==
=== Mission ===
'' "Green Wheels facilitates the development of balanced and sustainable transportation in Humboldt and Del Norte Counties and the reduction of automobile dependency by:
* educating the public on the benefits and ease of using sustainable transportation
* identifying the causes of automobile dependency and barriers to development and use of sustainable transportation
* promoting institutional development and reform that fosters balanced and sustainable transportation" '' 

=== Work on energy related issues ===
*Green-wheels worked to develop the "jack pass," which is a universal bus pass for HSU students. This program was implemented in 2007, and has increased use of public transportation by thirty percent. 
*HSU bike plan was designed by green-wheels to make the campus more bicycle friendly.
*Engaging city about multiple transportation use in 101 safety corridor. Grassroots organizing to create a highway improvement project which was not previously considered by the city.
*Arcata bike lane inventory, which provided an update of bike lane conditions in the area.
*Humboldt County general plan update, green-wheels is participating in construction of the draft.
*Responsible for updating the regional transportation plan for Humboldt County, beginning in 2008.
<ref>http://www.green-wheels.org/node/307</ref>

=== Contact Info ===
:Green Wheels
:c/o Northcoast Environmental Center 
:791 8th St. Arcata, CA 95521
:Contact Development Director: Ashley Hanson (ashley@green-wheels.org)
:email- mail@green-wheels.org
:http://www.green-wheels.org

== Humboldt Bay Center For Sustainable Living  ==

=== Mission  ===
The main mission of the ''Humboldt Bay Center For Sustainable Living'' is to be a model for future organizations on how to live in a sustainable manner. They would also like to be a model on how to educate and inspire people who are passionate about this field of work. 

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
The [[Humboldt Bay Center For Sustainable Living]] uses on-going research to help educate the public about the benefits of sustainable living. They have held hands-on workshops, numerous exhibits, and guided tours that all encourage public participation. This organization also helps develop "Green" businesses during their crucial beginning stages. One important project that this organization is working on is the development of the Humboldt Bay Eco-Hostel. 

=== Contact Info  ===
:Humboldt Bay Center For Sustainable Living 
:P.O. Box 309 
:Arcata, CA 95518 
:Telephone: 707-822-7931 
:http://info@eco-hostel.org 

== Humboldt Bay Municipal Water District  ==
=== Mission  ===
''" Reliably deliver high quality drinking water to the communities and customers we serve in the greater Humboldt Bay Area at a reasonable cost. Reliably deliver untreated water to our wholesale industrial customer(s) at a reasonable cost. Protect the long-term water supply and water quality interests of the District in the Mad River watershed."'' <ref>http://www.hbmwd.com/mission</ref> 

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
HBMWD is increasing the energy efficiency of their buildings by replacing single pane windows with double pane windows and installing energy efficient lighting. Current activities also include energy efficiency and use reduction as needed to replace or repair pumps and motors. HBWMD also operates a hydro-electric plant. 

=== Contact Info  ===
:Carol Rische 
:828 Seventh Street/P.O. Box 95 
:Eureka, CA 95502 
:Phone: (707) 443-5018 
:Fax: (707) 443-5731 
:http://www.hbmwd.com/home 

== Humboldt Plan It Green  ==
=== Mission  ===
''"Humboldt Plan It Green is a 501(c)(3), nonprofit organization working to increase the demand for green buildings, renewable energy systems, local food production systems, and sustainable economic development by providing inspiration, education, and technical assistance." '' 

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
This organization is involved in a variety of energy related projects and community work with local groups. Some current projects and activities they listed on their website were: Humboldt County's Green Employers Council, Humboldt Green Building Program, Building Green Communities Conference series, and Humboldt County Green Business Certification system. This organization’s target market includes all community members in the residential and industrial sector, including public agencies or government professionals. 

=== Contact Info  ===
:Steve Salzman 
:salzman@humboldtplanitgreen.org 
:Plan It Green 
:1385 8th St., Suite G. 
:Arcata, CA 95521 
:(707) 822-0665 
:http://www.humboldtplanitgreen.com/

== Humboldt Waste Management Authority  ==
=== Mission  ===
''"May 2009 - under construction" '' 

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
HWMA is currently working towards a pilot bio digester program to see if the amount of organic trash produced in Humboldt county would be enough to produce a viable amount of gas to produce energy, save money and meet state mandates. The estimated cost of installation of this bio digester brings a price tag of 6-7 million $ with an annual operating cost of 618,000$. The plant is estimated to save 4 million $ to the county over the next 20 years.<ref>WHAT IS THIS REFERENCE?</ref> 

=== Contact Info  ===
:Humboldt Waste Management Authority 
:109 W Hawthorne St. 
:Eureka, CA 95501 
:(707) 268-8680 
:http://www.hwma.net/ 

== <font color="green">'''Locally Delicious'''</font>  ==
=== Mission  ===
''"The first goal of Locally Delicious is to encourage you to obtain a larger percentage of your food from our region. Your personal choices in eating can make a difference in your own health, the health of our community, our nation and the world at large. Eating within our region gives you better-tasting food, improves your nutrition and our local economy, and enriches our community. It reduces our carbon footprint and reduces the pollution and disease generated by industrial agriculture. Some of your choices can also contribute to solving issues of hunger on a global basis." ''<ref>http://www.locally-delicious.org/</ref> 

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
Locally Delicious works on energy related issues by encouraging people to eat fresh locally grown foods instead of food that is commercially grown. By eating locally you reduce the amount of gas needed for shipping. “Local food uses 17 times less petroleum,” Anderson said. <ref>http://www.triplicate.com/http://www.triplicate.com/20100316108461/News/Local-News/The-local-solution</ref> The Heirloom Tomatoes publish a recipe and resource book for eating locally on the North Coast.

=== Contact Info  ===
:Heirloom Tomatoes (Ann Anderson, Martha Haynes, Ann King, Carol Mone, Lauren Cohn-Sarabia, and Suzanne Simpson) 
:Email: info@locally-delicious.com 
:Website: http://www.locally-delicious.org/ 

== Northcoast Environmental Center  ==

=== Mission  ===
''"To promote understanding of the relations between people and the biosphere and to conserve, protect and celebrate terrestrial, aquatic and marine ecosystems of northern California and southern Oregon.." '' 

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
:Fiscally sponsored programs of the NEC: 
*Healthy Humboldt Coalition – "working for a County General Plan that provides healthy transportation and housing choices while protecting resource lands and watersheds by focusing future growth in existing communities.” <ref>http://yournec.org/node/6</ref> 
*Green Wheels – “working for a healthier community, economy and environment, advocating for balanced and sustainable transportation on the North Coast. This means transit as a viable alternative to driving for working families, land use planning to make sustainable transportation more cost and time-effective, and bike and pedestrian infrastructure that everyone feels safe using including a Humboldt Bay Trail between Eureka and Arcata.” <ref>http://yournec.org/node/6</ref> 

=== Contact Info  ===
: Contacts: Pete Nichols, Board President and Jim Clark, Vice-President 
: Mailing Address: P.O. Box 4259, Arcata, CA 95518 
: Location Address: 791 Eighth Street, Arcata, CA 9521 
: Phone Number: (707) 822-6918 
: Fax: (707) 822-6980 
: E-mail: nec@yournec.org 
: Website: http://yournec.org/ 

== Ourevolution  ==
=== Mission  ===
The mission of Ourevolution consists of providing a "professional collaborative" approach to change in regards to engineering and technology. Their goal is to communicate "energy efficient" and "environmentally conscious" systems to the public and the community. 

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
''Ourevolution'' is an organization that has numerous projects currently running in the energy related field. Engineers associated with this company have worked with hotels by providing energy efficient design reviews and have conducted economic analyses of these proposed hotels. They did the initial study for the Humboldt Waste Management Authority Anaerobic Food Waste Digester Project and provided a Reduce, Reuse and Recycle Solid Waste feasibility study for the Karuk Tribe of California. 

=== Contact Info  ===
:1385 Eighth Street, Suite E 
:Arcata, CA 95521 
:707-633-4210 
:http://www.ourevolution.com/ 

== Pacific Forest Trust ==

=== Mission  ===
''"Retain. Sustain. Gain." '' PFT is working to ''Retain'' our forest infrastructure by raising awareness of the threats to privately owned working forests and by directly conserving critical forestlands in partnership with landowners and communities across the United States. We lead the country in the use of working forest conservation easements that ensure productive forests stay working. And we help protect the integrity of important public forests by conserving neighboring private lands threatened by development. PFT helps ''Sustain'' forests by employing state-of-the-art forest stewardship practices on the thousands of acres we manage in the Pacific West. Through our national consulting, speaking and advocacy work we also promote exemplary forest management to landowners, policymakers and the public, so people across the United States will better understand that forestry is key to ecosystem conservation. PFT also helps both landowners and the public ''Gain'' from working forests by developing and promoting forest ecosystem services. These services form the basis for a sustainable business model that yields financial returns from land management practices that offer direct benefits to the public, such as reducing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions that warm the atmosphere, protecting watershed quality and enhancing fish and wildlife habitat.''<ref>http://www.pacificforest.org/about/index.html</ref>'' 

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
PFT is the organization that provides conservation and management for the Van Eck Forest Project. Located north of Arcata, CA in Humboldt County, the forest serves as California’s first forest to be registered under the California’s Forest Protocols and California Air Resources Board (CARB) standards for GHG emission reduction goals. PFT actively trades and sells carbon credits from the Van Eck property and others in the region. 

=== Contact Info  ===
:The Pacific Forest Trust 
:1001-A O'Reilly Avenue? 
:San Francisco, CA 94129? 
:Phone: 415.561.0700 
:http://www.pacificforest.org/ 

== Potawot  ==

===Mission===
PLEASE POST THE MISSION.

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
[[Potawot]] health village uses photovoltaic panels to produce up to 25%of it's power needs per month.  This on average saves the facility 2,000-3,000$ per month on electricity.<ref>http://www.appropedia.org/Potawot_Health_Village_Solar_Energy:_Installation_and_History</ref>

Other ways Potawot reduces there energy consumption is with a rainwater catchment system and the use of constructed wetlands made to clean stormwater before being released back into the environment.

=== Contact Info  ===
:Alison Aldridge
:(707) 825-4098
:http://www.uihs.org/category/locations/potawot
[http://www.example.com link title]

== Redwood Alliance  ==

=== Mission  ===
''"The Redwood Alliance is a community-based social and environmental organization whose main focus is advocacy and education to promote safe and efficient energy use and development.." '' 

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
Redwood Alliance, in the past, has fostered or created many programs to reduce local greenhouse gases, drive away nuclear power, and promote renewable energy in Humboldt County, and has been successful with many of their projects. According to their website, "Redwood Alliance is a grassroots organization that deals mainly with energy issues. Formed in 1978 by a group of individuals concerned about our nation's growing reliance on nuclear power, our first successful fight was to force PG&amp;E to permanently shut down the Humboldt Bay Nuclear Power Plant in Eureka, CA."<ref>http://redwoodalliance.org</ref> 

More recently, they have focused on monitoring "ICLEI Cities For Climate Protection Program greenhouse gas reduction plan (adopted) by the County of Humboldt..." as well as "a range of issues, including nuclear waste, human-caused climate change (global warming), and renewable energy."

=== Contact Info  ===
:Redwood Alliance
:PO Box 293
:Arcata, CA 95518
:707-822-7884
:http://www.redwoodalliance.org

== Redwood Coast Energy Authority  ==

=== Mission  ===
''"RCEA's mission is to develop and implement sustainable energy initiatives that reduce energy demand, increase energy efficiency, and advance the use of clean, efficient, and renewable resources available in the region." <ref>http://redwoodenergy.org/programs</ref>'' 

=== Work on energy related issues <ref>http://redwoodenergy.org/programs</ref>  ===
The [[Redwood Coast Energy Authority]] is a joint powers authority who continuously monitors for new opportunities that best support and promote their mission They currently are working on 6 specific projects. 

*Redwood Coast Energy Watch (RCEW): This is a partnership between RCEA and Pacific Gas &amp; Electric which offers local energy efficiency services to the entire county of Humboldt. Through education, incentives, and project management, this program helps the participating clients to save energy by reducing their energy demand. 
**A subset of the RCEW is the Humboldt Non-Profit Energy Efficiency Program. Non-profit organizations are eligible to receive up to full funding for their energy efficiency retrofit projects through utility incentives and matching RCEW funds. 
*Fluorescent Take-It-Back Program: A free program that encourages residents to recycle old and used fluorescent lamps. It also provides a helpful resource for the community to establish and locate appropriate fluorescent recycling centers in the county. 
*Humboldt Green Building Program: A joint project between RCEA and Plan It Green that is county-wide and provides practical design guidelines, information, and resources for home owners and builders so they can be up-to-date with the new California Green Building Codes and sustainable building. 
*Renewable Energy Secure Communities(RESC): RCEA is a part of a pilot study funded by a California Energy Commission that will attempt to research pathways in which Humboldt County can be as self-sustainable as possible by generating 75-100% of energy within the county originating from renewable resources. 
*Greenhouse Gas Reduction Program: This program is a part of a larger implementation plan, Assembly Bill 32, and it helps to assist local jurisdictions to analyze, plan, implement, and monitor greenhouse gas reduction measures. 
*Humboldt General Plan Update: The General Plan has a specific section, an Energy Element, designed to help the county be self-sufficient and produce its own sustainable renewable energy. RCEA has been designated by the County Board of Supervisors to implement this Energy Element by means of a Comprehensive Action Plan for Energy.

=== Contact Info  ===
:Redwood Coast Energy Authority  
:517 5th Street  
:Eureka, CA 95501  
:(707) 269 - 1700 (local)  
:(800) 931 - RCEA (toll free)  
:(800) 931 - 7321 (toll free)  
:Fax: (707) 269 - 1777  
:Email: info@redwoodenergy.org  
:Website: http://redwoodenergy.org/ 


== Redwood Community Action Agency (RCAA) ==

=== Mission of RCAA  ===
''"Redwood Community Action Agency (RCAA) is a locally based, private non-profit organization that provides a wide range of services to low and moderate income residents of Humboldt County. Our long-term goal is to develop programs through which people can become self-sufficient and empowered to improve their own lives. The concept of community action has been part of the American social fabric for over thirty-five years. The primary mission of this nationwide movement is to "eliminate the paradox of poverty in the midst of plenty." '' <ref>http://www.rcaa.org/</ref> 

=== Mission of RCAA's Energy Demonstration Center  ===

''"The Energy and Environmental Services Division is committed to assisting low to moderate income households reduce their energy burden, improve the health and safety conditions of occupied housing and to foster client self-sufficiency." ''<ref>http://www.rcaa.org/EnergyDemonstration/index.html</ref> 

=== Work on energy related issues  ===
To fulfill these goals to the community, RCAA provides these services for Humboldt County residents: 
*'''Health and Safety Testing and Repairs:''' Combustion Appliance Safety (CAS) testing and health and safety repairs or replacements, if needed for combustion appliances (heaters, water heaters, ovens, stove tops, and clothes dryers) at no cost to the homeowner or renter. Their main concern is that the system “operates properly and efficiently.” 
*'''Energy Efficiency and Weatherization Services''' RCAA identifies the “most energy saving methods for reducing energy waste, pollution and related costs.” They use: the &lt;a href="http://www.energysavers.gov/your_home/energy_audits/index.cfm/mytopic=11190"&gt;Blower Door&lt;/a&gt;, &lt;a href="http://www.bacharach-inc.com/monoxor2.htm"&gt;Monoxor II CAS testing device&lt;/a&gt; and the &lt;a href="http://www1.eere.energy.gov/industry/saveenergynow/assessments.html"&gt;Department of Energy’s Energy Efficiency Assessment Audit&lt;/a&gt;to determine what needs repaired or improved to reduce energy costs. Efficiency and Weatherization services provided are: 
**Attic, floor, duct and water heater insulation 
**Setback thermostats and electric water heater timers 
**Heating and air conditioning repairs or tune-ups 
**Installation of carbon monoxide detectors 
**Low flow showerheads and faucet aerators 
**Installation of storm and thermal windows 
**Lighting retrofits 
*'''Energy, Environmental and Telecommunications Education''' RCAA is “committed to providing information and education services for low to moderate income households on issues that are of importance and that impact their lives.” They believe in providing information that is factual and unbiased in order for clients to make their own informed decisions. 
*'''Energy Assistance''' On a once per year basis, RCAA will provide assistance with payment or purchase of electricity, propane and natural gas for qualified households. Applicants are given information on energy conservation and are encouraged to have their homes weatherized.

=== Contact Info  ===
:RCAA  
:Phone: (707) 445-0881  
:Website: http://www.rcaa.org/ 

:Energy Demonstration Center  
:Phone: (707) 444-3831  
:Address: 539 T Street, Eureka, CA 95501  
:Website: http://www.rcaa.org/EnergyDemonstration/index.html 

== References  ==
{{Reflist}}

[[Category:Engr370 Energy, Technology and Society]]
[[Category:Humboldt County, California]]