===Solar Hot Water Panels in Arcata===
*'''Description:''' Solar hot water panels located on top of a private residence 
*'''Justification:''' [[Solar hot water]] panels utilize the sun's energy to heat up solar thermal collectors.  The collectors transfer the suns heat energy to a fluid system and or storage reservoirs which store the heat so that it can be used to heat water.  Since a [[renewable energy]] source (the sun) is providing the majority of the energy to heat the water, it makes these panels on the home strong AT candidates.    
*'''Issues:''' Not much is known about how much heat these solar water panels generate for this residence.  These are the only two panels on the home and it is probably safe to assume it is generating sufficient hot water for the home, though it is probably coupled with another water heating device and energy source besides just the sun, though the sun probably provides most of the energy.  The hot water panels, like solar panels, have the potential to function at a lower then expected or needed level if not enough sun energy is available to be collected (i.e. if the panels are placed in a poor location or if the sun is obscured for long periods of time)   
*'''Location:''' Private residence on the corner of 13th and Union Street near Humboldt State.
*'''Notes:''' This home also has a set of photovoltaic panels on the roof near the solar hot water panels.  
 
{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:Solar_Hot_Water_Panels.JPG|
}}

===Instructions===
To add a new AT implementation to this resource, Copy and paste the following into notepad. Make the appropriate edits (replace allcap text) and then paste above the Instructions line in the edit window. 
{{template:Parras AT}}


[[Category:AT Photos]]  
[[Category:Humboldt AT gallery]]