===Parabolic Solar Cooker===
*'''Description:''' This kind of cooker uses the light energy from the sun to heat/cook food.   A pot or skillet is placed at the focal point of the dish. (It must be black in order to absorb the maximum amount of light energy). The pan heats up and cooks the food. 
*'''Justification:''' This is an [[appropriate technology]] because it uses no natural gas or electricity in order to work. There are no harmful off-gases either, just heat. This particular dish was constructed from waste materials, which makes it even more [[appropriate]]. 
*'''Issues:''' The only issue is with the construstion of the dish. Many of the materials used can be considered non-AT material, (i.e. sheet aluminum, rivets...)
*'''Location:''' This dish is currently located in Blue Lake. 

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:aleiha_dish.jpg|
}}

===Stadium Light Solar Cooker===
*'''Description:''' This is a parabolic solar cooker made from a decommissioned stadium light reflector. It can be used for cooking, specifically, anything that is made with boiling water. So far, it has worked best by placing a jar painted with black, non-toxic paint at the focal point in the base of the solar cooker while having the cooker pointed at the sun.
*'''Justification:''' It is appropriate technology because it uses [[solar power]] to cook food instead of gas or electricity and it is made from something that otherwise would have been thrown away.
*'''Issues:''' It can only be used on sunny days and it takes longer than a conventional stove or oven.
*'''Location:''' This solar cooker is at Sunset and Western in Arcata, but there are a few of the same type around Humboldt County.

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:stadiumparaboliccooker.jpg|
}}

===Instructions===
To add a new AT implementation to this resource, Copy and paste the following into notepad. Make the appropriate edits (replace allcap text) and then paste above the Instructions line in the edit window. 

{{template:Parras AT}}

[[Category:AT Photos]]  
[[Category:Humboldt AT gallery]]
[[Category:Solar cooking]]