====Literature Review====

basic search ie, hydrogen fuel cell car

The Honda FCX Clarity
http://automobiles.honda.com/fcx-clarity/?ef_id=1097:3:c_eb55b159bcf834656546722176928b0b_1053086082:yoSD3kNIYX0AAHwBAmMAAAAL:20080202165750
http://hydrogencar.ws/honda-fcx-clarity/

The toy H-2 racer available for sale:
http://gizmodo.com/gadgets/gadgets/hracer-toy-hydrogen-car-174962.php
http://www.discoverthis.com/h-racer.html
http://solar.rain-barrel.net/hydrogen-toy-car/

The BMW Hydrogen 7
http://hydrogencar.ws/bmw-hydrogen-7/

The Chevy Equinox
http://hydrogencar.ws/chevrolet-equinox/

General Motors has taken great strides in pursuing hydrogen technology. They view hydrogen fuel cells as a viable solution to the world's growing energy problem. The Chevy Equinox is the first step by GM in producing a hydrogen powered car that will be available to the general public.

The BMW Hydrogen 7 only has several hundred models in existence. It is growing in popularity in Europe due to the increasing number of hydrogen fueling stations, and some Hydrogen 7s are starting to show up in the United States as well.

The Honda hydrogen car is growing in popularity thanks to it's impressive design and low emissions. The streamlined layout of the new Clarity was due to the use of a compact design and efficient powertrain components.

The reason that the Honda FCX Clarity car and potential others like it are not more readily available is because there are not very many hydrogen fuel stations available. There is some research going on that may potentially convert water directly into hydrogen using energy from the sun (see [[Hydrogen from water and sun]]). 



[[Category: PH 254]]
[[Category: Energy]]