{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Hypertension.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Early detection of preeclampsia is key so as to prevent eclampsia, a high blood pressure disorder and the second-leading cause of maternal deaths in the developing world. However, early detection is a rarity in developing countries because of the lack of affordable hypertension detectors and also because unskilled health workers find it difficult to operate and read conventional devices. Thus, there is a need for simple detection of hypertension for mothers in low-resource settings. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
Jhpiego, a non-profit international health organization affiliated with Johns Hopkins University, has developed a durable, easy-to-use, and affordable detector containing a mechanical crank that produces either a green or red light to signal hypertension. The device utilizes oscillometry to detect blood pressure. The detector can be utilized in peripheral level health care settings or homes. 

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Jhpiego.
*Manufacturer location: Johns Hopkins University, Maryland, USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Field testing was conducted in 2010 in Nepal.

==Funding Source==
This device received funding from the USAID Innovation Award.

==References==
===Other internally generated reports===
Jhpiego Innovations Program: Development, Delivery and Impact at Scale. (n.d.). Jhpiego: Innovating to Save Lives. Retrieved January 1, 2013. Link available [http://www.jhpiego.org/en/content/jhpiego-innovations-program-development-delivery-and-impact-scale here].

M. Trachtenberg, M., Lee, S. Jayaram, G., Acharya, S., Thakor, N. Sangvi, H.  (n.d.). Hypertension Detector for Developing Countries. Johns Hopkins University. Retrieved January 1, 2013. PDF available [https://jscholarship.library.jhu.edu/bitstream/handle/1774.2/34123/BP_paper1.pdf here].

===Externally generated reports===
Hypertension Detector for LDCs. (2011, March 3). Maternova: Tools and ideas that save mothers and newborns. Retrieved January 1, 2013. Link available [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/hypertension-detector-ldcs here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->