{{expertise needed}}
{{speculative}}

An '''ICE fuel conversion''' (or '''internal combustion engine fuel conversion''') is a form of [[green tuning]] where the [[internal combustion engine]] is adapted for use with a [[alternative fuel]]. <ref>[http://www.uk-energy-saving.com/alternative_fuel_conversion.html Alternative fuel conversion]</ref>

==Types of conversions==
Several types of conversions exist. These include:
* [[Vegetable_oil_as_fuel#Conversion_of_diesel_engines|Vegetable oil conversion]] of diesel cars. 
* [[Hydrogen fuel enhancement|Hydrogen and oxyhydrogen conversions]]. <ref>[http://pesn.com/2009/01/17/9501513_100percent_Hydroxy_scooter/]</ref><ref>[http://in.truveo.com/4-Stroke-Conversion-to-HHO-Implosion-2-Stroke/id/72723661 Hydrogen fuel conversion explained]</ref>These only include [[Hydrogen internal combustion engine vehicle]] conversions and not hydrogen fuel cell conversions, which no longer use an internal combustion cycle. Pure hydrogen as well as [[Oxyhydrogen]] is completely non-polluting. Other mixtures as [[HCNG]] too exist but are no longer emissionless due to the presence of gases as natural gas.
* [[Hydrogen]] or oxyhydrogen/fossil fuel conversion. These conversions merely mix hydrogen/oxyhydrogen with fossil fuels.<ref>[http://water2fuelkit.com/faq.php Water2fuel as a hydrogen/fossil fuel mixing kit]</ref><ref>[http://peswiki.com/index.php/Directory:Fuel_Efficiency_Hydrogen_Injection List of companies selling hydrogen boosters]</ref><ref>[http://www.water4fuel.com/Water4FuelAbout.html Water4Fuel as a hydrogen/fossil fuel mixing kit]</ref><ref>[http://centralvalleyhho.com/ Central Valley HHO, company selling HHO boosters for small and large vehicles (even ships)]</ref><ref>[http://stores.homestead.com/hydrogengarage/StoreFront.bok Another company selling a variety of HHO boosters (specific to the IC motor used)]</ref> They are usually called [[hydrogen booster]]s.<ref>[http://www.consumeraffairs.com/news04/2008/07/water4gas.html Hydrogen boosters]</ref><ref>[http://www.auto-facts.org/water4gas-scam.html Improving the Water4gas system]</ref>
* [[Liquid nitrogen ICE conversion]]s are conversions with [[Liquid nitrogen]]. 
* [[Ethanol fuel]] conversions , and [[E85]] conversions
* [[Natural gas]], [[LPG]], [[methanol]], [[butanol]] and other fuel conversions

==Comparison of conversions==
{{Main|Alternative fuels}}
{{Main|Comparison of alternative ICE fuels}}
Vegetable oil conversions are undoubtably most known and popular conversions. However, vegetable oil, as well as most other combustible fuels (except hydrogen) are polluting to some degree. Although purer fuels (as ethanol, methanol, ...) burn cleaner, they too still emit poisonous gases, and toxicologic and climate reports have stated that they are not more clean than gasoline/diesel and are sometimes even worse.

When compared against each other, conversion to liquid hydrogen, oxyhydrogen or liquid nitrogen internal combustion is undoubtably the most ecologic. <ref>[http://www.vcacarfueldata.org.uk/information/useful-information.asp Car fuels compared]</ref>A conversion to hydrogen will completely eliminate all engine emissions. Hydrogen however has less energy per kg. These downsides however may also be reverted by improving the efficiency of the [[internal combustion engine]] itself, which is generally only 20% efficient (the remaining 80% of energy is lost as waste heat). This may be done in practice by the installation of [[heat exchangers]] hooked up to a [[stirling engine]] (which may use the heat difference between the engine and the outside air to generate extra power). Liquid nitrogen conversions finally are also very ecologic, yet little information is already available on how a conversion can be done and how inexpensive liquid nitrogen generators can be made.

==In practice==
The possibility and difficulty of the ICE fuel conversion depends on the type of engine.

The easiest and most versatile to alter is the [[Quasiturbine]] which runs on several more "regular" alternative fuels as well as [[compressed air]].

2-stroke engines are probably not convertible.<ref>[http://answers.yahoo.com/question/index?qid=20080614221858AA4eGyA 2-stroke engine conversions]</ref> Though most automobiles no longer use 2-stroke engines, some marine engines (eg simple outboard engines) and smaller vehicles (eg scooters, ...) still use them.

[[Wankel engine|Rotary engines]] can be quite easily converted due to the fact that in most conversions, basically only the fuel is changed and not the engine itself, relatively few modifications need to be done
 
With 4-stroke engines, conversions are also simple due to the fact that again only the fuel needs to be changed and not the engine. <ref>[http://hubpages.com/hub/Future-Car-Fords-Hydrogen-ICE Conversion of ICE to hydrogen]</ref>Diesel variants are most useful for vegetable oil conversions<ref>[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vegetable_oil_fuel#Modified_fuel_systems Modifying diesel engines]</ref><ref>[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OjndN5UPorQ Green Wheels:Lovecraft biofuels; docu showing petrol engine modification in practice]</ref>, while petrol engines are more simple in design and easier to convert with certain fuels (primarily non-oil-based (or rather non-viscous) fuels. <ref>[http://energyshowandtell.wetpaint.com/page/IdahoHydrogen Hydroxy conversion videos and research papers]</ref><ref>[http://pesn.com/2009/01/17/9501513_100percent_Hydroxy_scooter/Hydrogen_Enriched_Hydrocarbon_Combustion.pdf Hydroxy fuel conversion for 4-stroke engines]</ref>

For example with ethanol fuel conversions, only some mere changes in the [[carburator]] (eg boring out of 2 jet orifices) and a alturation in the ingition timing needed to be done. <ref>[http://journeytoforever.org/biofuel_library/ethanol_motherearth/me2.html Ethanol fuel conversion]</ref>

Conversions may be outsourced to professionals, depending on the type of engine and conversion to be done. <ref>[http://www.revolve.co.uk/Projects/Bi-fuel-conversion Petrol to hydrogen ICE conversion outsourcing]</ref>Amateur conversions may also be done, either 'on the touch' or with a conversion [[kit]].

==Conversion assistance==
Due to the increasing popularity of internal combustion engine fuel conversions, commercial conversion kits have recently become available. Kits allow a relative cheap conversion together with an easier installation <ref>[http://www.bestwatercarfuel.com/art-hydrogen-conversion-kits-scam.htm Benefits of conversion kits]</ref>(requiring less knowledge/skill in these conversions). Kits can be found through sites as [http://www.hydrogencarconversion.com/hydrogenconversionforcars.php Hydrogencarconversion], ...

==References==
{{Reflist}}
==See also==
*[[Alternative ICE fuel generator]]
*[[Comparison of alternative ICE fuels]]

[[Category:Alternative propulsion]]
[[Category:Green vehicles]]
[[Category:Vehicle modification| ]]

== External links ==
* [[Wikipedia:ICE fuel conversion]]

[[Category:Transport]]