Incredible Edible Todmorden is an [[urban agriculture]]  project of a [[Yorkshire]] village to bring food growing into the streets and raise community awareness of food.<ref name=IncTod>Paull, J. (2013). [http://www.academia.edu/9145094/Please_pick_me_How_Incredible_Edible_Todmorden_is_repurposing_the_commons_for_open_source_food_and_agrobiodiversity "Please Pick Me – How Incredible Edible Todmorden is repurposing the commons for open source food and agricultural biodiversity"]. In Diversifying Foods and Diets: Using Agricultural Biodiversity to Improve Nutrition and Health, J. Franzo, D. Hunter, T. Borelli & F. Mattei (Eds.). London: Earthscan - Routledge.</ref> 

Todmorden is a quaint village in north east England. A public meeting in 2008 led to the founding of Incredible Edible Todmorden. Numerous spots around the village were planted out with fruit, vegetables and herbs. Food plots included the railway station, the local technical school, the police station, primary and secondary schools, the hospital car park, the canal side, and street verges.<ref>Paull, John (2011) [http://www.academia.edu/30671525/Incredible_Edible_Todmorden_Eating_the_Street  "Incredible Edible Todmorden: Eating the Street"], Farming Matters, 27(3):28-29.</ref>

The garden plots of Incredible Edible Todmorden are tended by volunteers. Passers-by are encouraged to pick the fresh produce for their own use.<ref name=IncTod>Paull, J. (2013). [http://www.academia.edu/9145094/Please_pick_me_How_Incredible_Edible_Todmorden_is_repurposing_the_commons_for_open_source_food_and_agrobiodiversity "Please Pick Me – How Incredible Edible Todmorden is repurposing the commons for open source food and agricultural biodiversity"]. In Diversifying Foods and Diets: Using Agricultural Biodiversity to Improve Nutrition and Health, J. Franzo, D. Hunter, T. Borelli & F. Mattei (Eds.). London: Earthscan - Routledge.</ref>

The success of the Incredible Edible project has inspired  other villages and towns to implement their own Incredible Edible plots, including at: Accrington; Cloughmills; Glossop; Holmes Chapel; Hoylake;
Huddersfield; Lambeth; Llandrindod; Prestwich; Ramsbottom; Rossendale; Totnes; Wakefield; Wight; and Wilmslow.<ref name=IncTod></ref><ref> [http://www.incredible-edible-todmorden.co.uk/ Incredible Edible Todmorden] website of Incredible Edible Todmorden</ref>

== See also ==

* [[Organic and sustainable farming]]
* [[Urban agriculture]]
* [[Agriculture]]
* [[Why is Eating Locally Important?]]
* [[Biodynamic Farming]]

== References  ==

[[Category:Yorkshire and the Humber]]