{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Poinerm.gif
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Women in developing nations often do not have access to contraceptives, and in the case that they do, may find it difficult to adhere to tedious guidelines on a regular basis.  Essentially, there is a need for easy-to-use, cost-effective contraceptives that do not require regular maintenance or effort.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This innovative drug delivery system is a subcutaneous biosynthetic bone-like material made of calcium minerals that, once implanted, can deliver contraceptives at regular intervals in a sustained manner for several months.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: This device is currently being developed by Gérrard Poinern of Murdoch University in Australia.
*Manufacturer location: Murdoch University in Perth, Australia

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
A research group is currently developing the technology to be feasible, and if successful, will collaborate with a drug company to begin human trials.

==Funding Source==
This device received funding from the Grand Challenges Exploration Grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

==References==
===Other internally generated reports===
Murdoch receives $100,000 to develop a contraceptive for third world. (2010, November 10). Murdoch University.  Retrieved February 5, 2013. Link available [http://media.murdoch.edu.au/murdoch-receives-100000-to-develop-a-contraceptive-for-third-world here].

===Externally generated reports===
Grand Challenges Explorations: Round 5 Winners Highlights. (n.d.). Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Retrieved February 5, 2013. Link available [http://www.grandchallenges.org/pages/default.aspx here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->