{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality, 
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Asia
|Image=Inspirebreathingassistant.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Pneumonia is a major cause of death for infants and children in resource-limited settings.  Since oxygen therapy is expensive and requires medical professionals, antibiotics are the often the only treatment.

==Detailed description of the solution==
Inspire converts room air into pressurized gas to expand patients’ lung instead of using oxygen tanks like traditional bubble CPAP methods.  Doctors can direct oxygen into the Inspire device if oxygen supplements are necessary.  Since pure oxygen in excess doses can result in blindness and asthma, this device is also safer for less-trained professionals to use.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: A team at Stanford University
*Manufacturer location: Stanford University

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Bangladesh

==Funding Source==
National Institutes of Health grant

==References==

===Other internally generated reports===
Pavkov, Pamela. (2011). INSPIRE: Evaluating a Transition to Product Development. Retrieved November 29, 2013 from [http://www.gsb.stanford.edu/sites/default/files/documents/Inspire-TransitiontoProductDevelopment.pdf here].

===Externally generated reports===
Pavkov, Pamela. (July 5, 2011). OpenIDEO. Inspire: a low-cost breathing assistant for infants in rural settings. Retrieved November 29, 2013 from [http://www.openideo.com/open/how-might-we-improve-health-care-through-social-business-in-low-income-communities/concepting/inspire-a-low-cost-breathing-assistant-for-infants-in-rural-settings-www.inspiremedical.org here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->