== Background==
The goal of the project is to create a design that could be reproduced by a child (age 8-12), with the help of an adult. The design was created to help bring awareness to children about the origin of their food. The design team that made this project is called Team Universal Research and Design. Team Universal Research and Design was employed by [[Locally Delicious]], so that Locally Delicious may use their design in their forthcoming book, ''Lunchbox Envy''.

== Instructions==
Instructions :

Acquisition of Materials:

Board, 1”x12”x12’  

2 pieces of tempered glass measuring 18 inches by 24 inches

1 container of food grade silicon caulk

Felt weather stripping

1 box of 1” screws

Mylar, 4 ft by 3 ft

Black construction paper

Cardboard 

Duct tape

Tinfoil

Staples


1. Assembling Box

The main body of the solar oven is constructed from seven pieces of wood. 

They are as follows:

2 side pieces of identical dimensions

2 bottom pieces of identical dimensions

1 front piece

2 back pieces of different dimensions

Start by cutting out the two bottom pieces. Each one will be cut to a length of 21 inches and will be as wide as the board. This way 

you have only to make two cuts to create these pieces. 


Next cut two identical pieces to be used for the sides. To make a side piece, first cut a length of board that is 21 inches long.  

Now choose one corner and designate that as the front-bottom corner. The 21 inch length will form the bottom of the piece and the 

height is formed by the original 11.5 inch dimension of the board. From the bottom of the board measure one inch along the height of 

the board and make a mark. From the top of that one inch mark measure out a line that is 19 and ¾ inches long and intersects the top 

edge of the board. From that point draw a line that intersects the rear edge of the board at a height of 5 inches from the bottom. 

Cut along these lines and you will have created one of two identical side pieces.

To make the two rear pieces cut two lengths of the original board that are 24 inches long. Now cut one of these into a strip that is 

24 long by 5 inches high, and cut the other into a strip that is 24 inches long by 8 inches high.

To make the front piece cut a length of board that is 24 inches long and then cut along its length so that you end up with a piece 

that is 24 inches long by 2 inches high.

Cut two more small pieces that are approximately 4 inches by 1 inch.

Take the two bottom pieces and set them side by side so that a rectangle is formed with a length of 21 inches along its side and a 

little less than 23 inches along its back and front. Now take the two pieces measuring 4 inches by 1 inch and use them to attach the 

bottom pieces together, forming a stronger bottom for the oven. Then take the back piece that measure 24 inches by 5 inches and set 

it along your work surface so that it lines up with one of the 23 inch sides of the bottom piece. Attach this with screws to that 

the bottom edge of the 24 inch by 5 inch piece is touching the work table or floor. Now set the two side pieces so that the 5 inch 

rear edge lines up with the 5 inch edge of the rear piece that was just attached. Screw the side piece into place with its bottom 

edge alto touching the work surface and so that its back edge touches the already attached back piece. Once the two sides are in 

place the second back piece can be attached.  This piece is simple screwed to the angled faces on the rear of the side pieces.  Then 

take the remaining front piece, the one measuring 24 inches by 2 inches, and screw it to the lower portion of the front leading 

edges of the side pieces. This completes the assembly of the box.


2. Insulating the Box


The first step is to use the silicon caulking to seal all of the seams between the pieces of wood. This sealant can be used inside 

or outside the box because it is food grade, but it is easier to use the caulking along the outside edges. 


The Mylar insulation will be placed inside the box for insulation. First, cut a piece that is approximately 44 inches by 21 inches. 

This will be used for the bottom and sides. Staple this piece along the bottom and sides of the box, and then trim the excess so 

that the edges line up with the interior face of the side pieces. Next, cut a piece of Mylar that is about 23 inches by 12 inches 

and staple that piece to the interior faces of the back pieces of the box.


Now cut the black construction paper to similar sizes and staple it over the Mylar insulation. Cut two pieces of felt weather 

stripping that are 18 inches long and staple them to the top-front faces of the side pieces. Then cut two pieces of felt weather 

stripping that are 24 inches long and staple them to the interior facing edges of the front piece and the upper back piece. 


3. Making a Double Paned Super Window


Cut two pieces of board that measure 24 inches by 1 inch. Then cut two pieces that measure 16 inches by 1 inch. Lay these pieces 

along the top of one of the pieces of tempered glass so that they form a frame along the edges of the glass. Then lay the second 

piece of glass on top of the wooden frame. Use the Silicon caulk to seal the edges along each side, thus forming a double paned lid 

that is airtight.


4. Solar Reflectors

From a cardboard box of sufficient size, cut two pieces that measure 24 inches by 12 inches. These will form the front and back 

pieces of the solar reflector. Then cut two pieces that measure 19 inches by 12 inches. These will form the side pieces of the solar 

reflector. Next, cut out 4 isosceles triangles that measure 7 inches along the bottom and 12 inches along the sides. Attach tinfoil 

to one side of each of the eight pieces of cardboard. Then, using duct tape, attach one of the front/back pieces to two of the 

triangles along the edges, so that the 12 inch sides of the triangles are attached to the 12 inch sides of the front/back piece. 

Then attach the one of the previously cut side pieces to one of the triangles that are attached to the front/back piece. Again, 

match the 12 inch sides together. Now attach the other side piece to the other triangle. Next, attach one of the remaining triangle 

pieces to one of the side pieces, taking care to match the 12 inch sides. Then attach the last triangle to the second side piece in 

turn. The remaining front/back piece is then attached to the two triangle edges that remain free, forming a complete ring and 

forming the final shape of the solar reflector. When attaching these pieces care must be taken to keep all of the sides covered in 

tinfoil facing up, so that the final solar reflector unit resembles an octagonal unit with tinfoil all along the inside. 


5. Using oven

*Placing food inside - picture

*Orientation to sun/direction – picture, although explanation should suffice here.

*Consuming delicious cookies (should find a few easily reproducible lower temp recipes for this part)

And now you are finished! :)

== Team Universal Research and Design==
*[[User:jrb120|Jon Brito]]
*[[User:rjh77|Ryan Hancock]]
*[[User:drewstoked|Andrew Spinardi]]
*[[User:jessclifton|Jess Clifton]]
See more about Team Universal Research and Design at
http://www.appropedia.org/Locally_Delicious_solar_oven_for_kids_with_adults
 
See more about Locally Delicious at
http://www.locally-delicious.org/

[[Category:Engr215 Introduction to Design]]
[[Category:Locally Delicious]]

== References==
{{reflist}}

==See also==
* [[Engr215 Introduction to Design]] 
* [[Locally Delicious]]

[[Category:Cookers]]