More [[energy-efficient]] and [[soundproof]] windows (glazing) can be achieved through multiple layers or through the use of coatings. '''Insulated glazing''' is an effective (but expensive) [[building element]] for these purposes.

Placement and size of the windows are also very important. [[Passive solar design]] considers the amount of sun that is captured, at what time of the year, and what time of the day, to warm when warmth is needed, and shield from heat during the hotter seasons and/or hotter parts of the day. 

== Multiple layer windows ==

'''Double-glazing''' and '''triple-glazing''' are much more effective at reducing both heat flow than conventional single layered glass. 

The drawbacks are:
* Greater cost
* The windows must be kept closed to gain the full effect. The insulation effect is largely lost when the windows are opened. This may not be a big problem as: 
*# The windows may be opened at times of the day when the temperature is relatively comfortable. 
*# Ventilation may be achieved through a heat exchanger.{{fact}} (How [[cost-effective]] is a heat exchanger as part of an energy-efficient house?{{sp}})

Use of inert gas such as argon adds to the efficiency, but at greater cost and it will leak out over perhaps 5 years. This is probably not cost-effective.{{sp}}

=== Cost effective design idea ===
:<tt>This may be interresting for those on a tight budget that can't afford those new windows. Most of the windows in this house I have now are double glass already...but!...what the previous owner did was to put magentic strips around the edges of the window and add a removable panel of clear plexy glass. It is relativly thick plexy..not that thin flimzy stuff, the magnet strips create a very good seal, they can be removed to clean with a soft cloth and plexi is not that expensive. It is a great idea. I believe, it makes a significant difference to condensation, heat transfer, wind, noise and as a safety regarding protection if glass should get broken.</tt> - [http://answers.yahoo.com/question/index;_ylt=AsGRMtkApKZ72TsIHB.vAELpy6IX?qid=20070509142119AA853km Yahoo! Answers - I want to get double pane, energy efficient windows for my home. How important is Argon gas a factor?] (from a response posted by [http://answers.yahoo.com/my/profile;_ylt=ArDG4gRzJuElum6cBj8aLKqA6xR.?show=QBIwRjdRaa Jamie])

== Alternatives == 

'''[[Thermal curtains]]'''. An advantage is that a tenant could invest in thermal curtains and take the curtains with them when they move.

The appropriate solution depends on the context. Especially with a new building, double glazing or other insulated glazing is a good choice. 

== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:Insulated glazing]]

[[Category:Building elements]]
[[Category:Insulation]]
[[Category:Thermal insulation]]