The '''International Solar Alliance''' (ISA) is an initiative launched by France and India during the Paris Climate Change Conference in December 2015.<ref name="IISD">http://climate-l.iisd.org/news/france-india-inaugurate-international-solar-alliance/</ref>

In January 2016, President Hollande of France and Prime Minister Modi of India took part in a "foundation laying ceremony" of the ISA.<ref name="IISD" />  The French government is supporting ISA projects with the provision of 30 million Euros in 2016.<ref name="IISD" />

The ISA has has headquarters located in Gurgaon. 

This article is a work-in-progress as the ISA initiative becomes better known and its actions are realised.

== Purpose of the ISA ==

The aim of the ISA is to be one way of meeting the [[Paris Agreement]] goals.<ref name="IISD" /> It is intended to be used by countries which experience high levels of sunshine, enabling them to work together through the ISA to find improvements for harnessing the power of the sunshine.<ref name="IISD" /> The ISA is intended to promote cooperative efforts in research, development, financing, technology and the dissemination of clean energy and efficiency solutions to broaden access to clean energy.<ref name="IISD" />

== See also ==
*http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/international-solar-alliance-is-indias-gift-to-the-world-francois-hollande/articleshow/50722993.cms
*http://pmindia.gov.in/en/news_updates/pm-french-president-travel-to-gurgaon-by-metro-for-the-foundation-stone-laying-ceremony-of-international-solar-alliance-headquarters/?comment=disable
*http://basedoc.diplomatie.gouv.fr/vues/Kiosque/FranceDiplomatie/kiosque.php?fichier=baen2016-01-25.html#Chapitre2
*[[Mission Innovation]]

== Sources and citations ==
{{reflist}}

[[Category:International organizations]]
[[Category:Solar]]
[[Category:Climate change]]