"Sustainability" balances achievement of environmental, economic, and social equity goals-- the three E's.

To advocate for sustainability, it is helpful, particularly for Americans, to know what can be achieved by looking at other high income countries. Unfortunately, searches on Google and Wikipedia show no useful information on this subject. Furthermore, some particularly rich sources, like the UN Development Programme, [[Human Development Report]] 2007/2008 at http://hdr.undp.org/en/media/hdr_20072008_en_complete.pdf, still do not cover a large number of important issues. One way to see the big picture is to spend many hours tracking down specialized data bases comparing performance among nations. Another -- much easier -- way is to use this article as a portal to the wide world of national comparisons of performance on sustainability issues. (This article is based on many hours, etc.)

This article uses a variety of internationally recognized databases and organizations that compile statistical information on sustainability, including the economic and equity aspects. The data support the hypothesis that the U.S. ranks far behind other developed nations on almost all green indicators.

This article links to a website where all of the compiled statistical data can be found:<br /> http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/index.html

'''Purpose 1:''' To provide an introduction to the major data bases and selected content in a wide range        of policy areas for the casual user and the media.<br />             '''Purpose 2:''' To provide a fairly objective statistical comparison of the performance concerning sustainability of the US        with other selected developed countries.<br />        
'''Purpose 3:''' To provide  statistical information as objective as possible  to test the hypothesis that:<br />
<br /> 
SUMMARY FINDINGS

The US has high personal income, high productivity, large houses, and ample higher education. However, in most other ways that count, the US is the least developed of the developed countries. It is the most militarized. It has the highest population growth, the most uneven distribution of income, mediocre basic education, the lowest health status, the highest health costs, much higher crime, less leisure, more abortion and teen pregnancy, and a lower status for women.  The US is the least environmentally sustainable, the most polluting, and the most dependent on fossil fuel.

In addition to providing access to databases on the subject, this article also
looks at how the US compares to ten top leading advanced countries
using the same format for all the comparisons. The article also has, below the tables an sources, notes about the topic and indicators needing further research. If you have data to add, send it to the Wikia Community Team.
The ten countries were:
<br /> 
<br /> 
{| class="wikitable" border="1"
|-
| Australia
| France
| Italy
| Netherlands
| Sweden
|-
| Canada
| Germany
| Japan
| Norway
| United Kingdom
|}


The selected categories cover major topics of international  
relations, military security, social issues, <br />the environment
and the economy.  The categories used for comparisons are listed below:
<br /> 
<br /> 
{| class="wikitable" border="1"
|-
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet004.htm Aid]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet019.htm Environment]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet006.htm Income Distribution]
|-
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet014.htm Basic Education]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet008.htm Gender Equality]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet005.htm Military]
|-
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet021.htm Cars]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet020.htm Greehouse Gases]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet011.htm Population]
|-
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet007.htm Child Welfare]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet012.htm Health Care]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet009.htm Sexual Health]
|-
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet025.htm Competitivness]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet013.htm Health Status]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet024.htm Technology]
|-
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet016.htm Crime]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet015.htm Higher Education]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet010.htm Teen Pregnancy]
|-
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet023.htm Economy]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet018.htm Housing]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet003.htm Voting]
|-
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet022.htm Energy]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet002.htm Human Development Index]
| [http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/intl_comp_files/sheet017.htm Work and Leisure]
|}
 

International Comparisons - http://international-comparison.quarryvillage.org/index.html
<br /> 
<br />   
Please feel free to contact me directly:  sherman.lewis@csueastbay.edu

[[Category:Sustainability]]