'''Intercropping''' is the practice of placing different crops in close proximity to each other. This allows a greater density of plants, which can each take up different nutrients from a well kept soil. It is a practice often associated with [[sustainable agriculture]] and [[organic farming]]. It forms a part of [[polyculture]]. Examples of intercropping strategies are planting a deep-rooted crop with a shallow-rooted crop, or planting a tall crop with a shorter crop that requires partial shade.

The goal of intercropping is to produce a greater yield on a given piece of land, by making use of space that would otherwise be wasted with a single crop. Careful planning is required, taking into account the soil, climate, crops and varieties. It is particularly important not have crops competing with each other for space, nutrients, water or sunlight.

Intercropping of compatible plants also encourages [[biodiversity]], by providing a habitat for a variety of insects and soil organisms that would not be present in a single crop environment.

An example is the multi-tier system where [[coconut]] occupies the upper tier, [[banana]] the middle tier, and [[pineapple]], [[ginger]], or leguminous [[fodder]], [[medicinal plants| medicinal]] or [[aromatic plants]] the lower tier.  

[[Alley cropping]] and [[companion planting]] are particular forms of intercropping.

== See also ==
* [[Companion planting]]
* [[Pests and disease control]]
* [[Organic pesticide recipes]] - Often the plants that are used in organic pesticides can also be intercropped to have a similar repellent efect
*[[Abstracts_on_Sustainable_Agriculture_5#2._Comparative_evaluation_of_some_inter-cropping_systems_in_the_humid_tropics_of_southern_nigeria.   | Abstract]] of paper on comparing inter-cropping systems in Nigeria
* [[Abstracts_on_Sustainable_Agriculture_5#3._Intercropping_improves_land-use_efficiency | Abstract ]] of paper - Intercropping improves land-use efficiency

== External links ==
* [http://attra.ncat.org/attra-pub/summaries/intercrop.html Intercropping Principals and Production Practices] (pdf) from National Sustainable Agriculture Information Service (ATTRA)
* [http://www.agroecology.org/Case%20Studies/broccoli_intercrop.html Broccoli Lettuce intercrop case study] from AgroEcology

{{attrib permawiki|Intercropping}}
{{attrib wikipedia|Intercropping}}

[[Category:Organic_farming]]
[[Category:Sustainable agriculture]]