{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Physical disabilities 
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Asia
|Image=Jaipurknee.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
There are tens of thousands of amputees living in the developing world. Unfortunately, patients that live in these resource-poor areas and who lose a knee joint have few options. A titanium replacement can cost up to $10,000 and other inexpensive models are too crude to work effectively. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
The JaipurKnee is flexible and stable, even on irregular terrain. It is comprised of five pieces of plastic, four nuts and bolts and has self-lubricating, oil-filled nylon.  It does not require special tools and only takes a few hours to manufacture.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Joel Sadler and team of classmates from a design course at Stanford University.

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
The device costs $20 USD and is more effective than other crude models. It works effectively on rough terrain. It is currently being tested in India with a projected 100,000 devices being distributed in the next three years.

==References==
===Internally generated reports===
Stober, D. (2009, April 15). Cool product: $20 artificial knee for patients in the developing world. Stanford News Service: (650) 721-6965. Link available [http://news.stanford.edu/pr/2009/pr-limbs-041509.html here].

===Externally generated reports===
Abend L, Altman A, et al. The 50 Best Inventions of 2009. Time. Link available [http://www.time.com/time/specials/packages/0,28757,1934027,00.html here].