{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=HIV/AIDS
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Justmilk.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Nursing mothers who are HIV positive can spread HIV to infants through their breast milk.  There has been an effort to prevent the transmission from infected mothers to their babies.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The JustMilk Nipple Shield is placed on the nipple of the breast and fills the surface of the insert with a low-cost anti-viral agent.  The anti-viral agent is released into the milk during breast-feeding.  A technical challenge is ensuring that the anti-viral agent, which is desorbed under specific flow conditions, is loaded onto the surface of the insert at a rate such that an adequate dose can be delivered to the child.

==Designed by==
*Founding Members: Tombo Banda, Geoff Galgon, Stephen Gerrard, Ryan Hubbard, Elizabeth Kneen and David Sokal.
*Current researchers: David Sokal, Shelly Fischer, David Jenkins, Catherine Hart, Stephen Gerrard, Nigel Slater, the Engineering World Health team, Sandra Urdaneta Hartmann, Fred C. Krebs, Brian Wigdahl, Kiersten Israel-Ballard and Margaret Waithaka.

==When and where it was tested/implemented==
The JustMilk Nipple Shield was first introduced at the International Development Design Summit in 2008.  It was undergoing further testing and validation in 2010.  It is designed for use in sub-Saharan Africa but could eventually be implemented in other parts of the developing world.

==Funding Source==
The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation provided a grant to the JustMilk team in 2009.  Additional support is provided by Family Health International.

==References==
===Other internally generated reports===
Israel-Ballard, K., Hart, C., Thungu, F., Joanis, C., Baniecki, M. L., & Sokal, D.  (2010, July).  Acceptability of a modified nipple shield device to reduce breast milk transmission of HIV In developing countries: A qualitative study.  XVII International AIDS Conference.  
Abstract available [http://www.path.org/publications/detail.php?i=1842 here].

JustMilk: Combating mother-to-child HIV transmission.  Link found [http://justmilk.org/ here].
===Externally generated reports===
JustMilk, the nipple shield for preventing mother to child transmission of HIV.  (2011, April 2). Communicating science, the African Way.  Link available [http://afrisciheroes.wordpress.com/2011/04/05/justmilk-the-nipple-shield-for-preventing-mother-to-child-transmission-of-hiv/ here].

Nipple shield to prevent HIV.  (2011, July 7).  Maternova. Link available [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/nipple-shield-prevent-hiv here].