{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Waterborne diseases
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Asia
|Image=Kanchan.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Contaminated water sources are often the cause for diarrheal diseases. Inhabitants in low-resource settings often lack ready access to clean water and are most susceptible to diseases caused by contaminated water.  In addition, water supplies can be contaminated with high levels of arsenic.  For example, in eastern Nepal, 9% of the 268 water samples contained arsenic above the WHO guidelines.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Arsenic Bio-sand Filter (ABF) removes arsenic, iron, and bacterial contamination without using any chemicals.  The arsenic unit removes arsenic by oxidation/reduction, precipitation, and adsorption.  The pathogen removal unit contains sand and gravel layers that remove deadly pathogens.  The ABF unit can process 15 to 30 liters of water per hour.

==Designed by==
*Design: This filter was developed by researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Environment and Public Health Organization (ENPHO) of Nepal, and Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Support Programme (RWSSSP) of Nepal.

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Studies conducted in Nepal so far have shown that the Kanchan Arsenic Filter is effective in removing arsenic, iron as well as bacteria together.  The users liked the high flow rate, simple operation, minimal maintenance, as well as the clean-looking and good-tasting water coming out of the filters. They think the filter is a durable, permanent solution to their drinking water problems.

==Funding Source==
This project received a $115,000 award from the World Bank Development Marketplace Global Competition.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Baker, D. L., Duke, W. F., Mazumder, A. R., & Nordin, R. (2006). Performance of bsf in haiti: A field study of 107 households. Rural and Remote Health, 6(570). PDF available [http://www.rrh.org.au/publishedarticles/article_print_570.pdf here].

Baumgartner, J., Murcott, S., & Ezzati, M. (2007). Effects of operating conditions on the bacterial removal of two household drinking-water filters . : Environmental Research Letters, 2. PDF available [http://iopscience.iop.org/1748-9326/2/2/024003/pdf/erl7_2_024003.pdf here].

Stauber, C. E., Elliot, M. H., Koksal, F., Ortiz, G. M., Liang, K., DiGiano, F. A., & Sobsey, M. D. (2006). Characterization of the bsf for microbial reductions- lab and field conditions. : Water Science & Technology, 54(3), 1-7. Link available [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/entrez?db=pubmed&uid=17037125&cmd=showdetailview&ind%20exed=google here].

===Internally generated reports===
Ghimire, B. (n.d.). Kanchantm arsenic filter: Can iron and arsenic particles migrate through the sand layer?. Manuscript submitted for publication, Kathmandu University, Nepal. PDF available [http://web.mit.edu/watsan/Docs/Other%20Documents/KAF/Ghimire-%20Iron%20Arsenic%20Migration%20through%20KAF%202005.pdf here].

Thomson, E. A. (2004, March 9). Mit filter cleans nepalese drinking water. Link available [http://web.mit.edu/newsoffice/2004/nepal.html here].

===Externally generated reports===
Kanchan arsenic filter. (2010, July 26). Link available [http://www.akvo.org/wiki/index.php/Kanchan_Arsenic_Filter here].

Murcott, S. (2010). The kanchan™ arsenic filter. Link available [http://www.avisionforcleanwater.org/kanchan.html here].