{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype, Commercialized
|Location=Africa
|Image=Kanga.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Postpartum hemorrhaging is one of the most severe causes of maternal mortality. PPH (Postpartum hemorrhaging) rates in the developed worlds have severely decreased, but they are still a great threat in developing countries. The World Health Organization suggests that there are over 100,000 deaths due to postpartum hemorrhaging every year.
==Detailed description of the solution==
Kanga, a type of fabric made of cotton commonly used by African women, is rectangular (100cm × 155 cm) in shape. Two pieces of kanga (with a mentioned size) soaked in blood estimate the threshold for blood loss more than 500 ml. Hence, kanga can be used a measurement tool to estimate PPH [3]. 
==Designed by==
*Designed and manufactured by:
Women from rural Africa, primarily Tanzania. 

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
 
==Funding Source==

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
* [http://www.appropedia.org Example External URL]

===Other internally generated reports===
===Externally generated reports===

Prata, N., G. Mbaruku, and M. Campbell, Using the kanga to measure postpartum blood loss. International Journal of Gynecology and Obstetrics, 2005. 89(1): p. 49-50.
===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->