{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Kelly.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) is the leading cause of maternal mortality in resource-poor settings. Diagnosing PPH requires the ability to measure blood loss of 500 mL or more. The problem is that it is often difficult to take accurate measurements, especially when this process is conducted visually.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The patient sits on this device, which will indicate if the patient is experiencing postpartum hemorrhage.  The pad funnels the blood into a collection container which has a marked line at 500 mL of blood, indicating postpartum hemorrhage. This device is washable and can be sterilized, which reduces waste and the use of plastic drapes.

==Designed by==
*Manufacturer: Kelly's Pad is available through Maternova.net (see link [http://maternova.net/kellys-pad here]) and a number of other sellers.
*Manufacturing location: worldwide

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
According to Maternova, this device is predominantly used in India.

==Funding Source==

==References==
===Externally generated reports===
"Technologies innovations maternal neonatal newborn." Maternova offers neonatal health 	devices, obstetric supplies at low cost. N.p., n.d. Web. 2 Jan. 2013. Link available [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/kellys-pad here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->