Kerala, a Southern state of [[India]], is often noted for its successes in development, achieving [[quality of life]] measures similar to those in Western countries, in spite of its economic problems and much lower per capita income, and an [[ecological footprint]] of 0.7 - i.e. each person uses only 70% of the natural resources that they are entitled to for a sustainable world.{{fact}}{{expand}}

It has received attention from numerous development economists, including Amartya Sen,{{wp sup|Amartya Sen}} who makes comparisons between China's achievement of social and public health goals (including low birthrate) through [[Glossary_of_sustainability_terms#C|coercion]], and Kerala's slightly better achievements through [[education]] and [[empowerment]].

== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:Kerala]]
* [[Wikipedia:Kerala model]]

==Written references==
* ''[[Development as Freedom]]'',{{wp sup|Development as Freedom}} by Amartya Sen, 1999.

==External links==
* [http://www.ashanet.org/library/articles/kerala.199803.html Kerala: A Case Study] (taken from ''[http://www.utne.com/lens THE UTNE LENS]'') - an article outlining Kerala's successes and paradoxes.
* [http://www.chitram.org/mallu/keralamodel.htm Kerala Model of Developmnet - Online Resources Guide] - a collection of articles - links compiled by a Keralite. (''I added this link as it looked very interesting, but am lacking in time... It needs time and a critical eye to decide whether the link deserves to stay, whether the articles need expounding or rebutting... --[[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] &middot; <small>[[User talk:Chriswaterguy|talk]]</small> 05:34, 16 November 2007 (PST)'')
* [http://www.nira.go.jp/publ/review/97winter/uchi.html NIRA Review Winter 1997: Gender and Development in Kerala] - a more disturbing tale of exclusion and corruption in Kerala. 
* [http://www.hinduonnet.com/2001/01/09/stories/05092523.htm The Hindu : Amartya Sen & the Kerala 'model'], ''The Hindu'', January 09, 2001. A description of a speech given by Amartya Sen during a visit to Kerala. He rejects the idea of a "Kerala model," and outlines key issues in the history and future of Kerala. See also [http://www.hinduonnet.com/fline/fl1801/18011130.htm A Kerala experience], ''Frontline'' (also from ''The Hindu''), Jan. 06 - 19, 2001, with more extensive quotes from Sen's visit, and more explanation of his rejection of the idea of a "model".

[[Category:India]]
[[Category:Principles of development]]