This is a project by [http://servalsgroup.blogspot.com/ Servals Automation Pvt Ltd]. 



Winner of the June 2005 "Most Energy Efficient Stove" by the Paraffin Safety Association, South Africa (PASASA) among the comparative testing of stoves entered and holder of a patent in South Africa, this Energy Efficient Kerosene Stove is a rural energy product that will contribute a lot towards bettering the life of the bottom-of-the-pyramid.<br><br><br><span style="font-weight: bold; font-style: italic; color: rgb(204, 0, 0);">ENERGY EFFICIENT KEROSENE STOVES</span><br><br>

*The Stove has been declared as the “<span style="font-weight: bold; font-style: italic; color: rgb(0, 102, 0);">Most Energy Efficient Stove</span>” in June 2005 by the Paraffin Safety Association, South Africa ([http://www.paraffinsafety.org/ PASASA]) among the comparative testing of stoves entered.
*Fitted with Venus Energy Efficient [http://servalsgroup.blogspot.com/2008/03/energy-efficient-kerosene-burners.html Kerosene Burners] - a patented design that is proven to have 65.4% Thermal Efficiency against the mandatory requirement of 55% by ISI.
*This offers a <span style="font-style: italic; color: rgb(0, 102, 0);">30% savings in kerosene</span> consumption compared to burners available in the market.
*It is a [http://servalsgroup.blogspot.com/2009/08/reducing-carbon-footprint-while-cooking.html low carbon initiative]<br>


<span style="font-weight: bold; font-style: italic; color: rgb(204, 0, 0);">TOPPLING-SAFE STOVE</span><br><br>
*We have also designed a special Safety Stove. 
*This kerosene stove has a special “<span style="color: rgb(0, 102, 0); font-weight: bold; font-style: italic;">Toppling Safe</span>” feature. This is a special requirement of South Africa. Read more about why it is so critical in South Africa [http://servalsgroup.blogspot.com/2009/02/children-of-fire-movie-message.html here]..<br>
*It has also been awarded a patent in South Africa.



Read about our energy efficient [[Kerosene_Burner|kerosene burners]] and [[SAPL_TLUD_gasifier_stove|biomass stoves]] also.



[http://kontactr.com/user/servalsgroup123 Contact us] for more details.


[[Category:Stoves]] 
[[Category:Cookers]] 
[[Category:Stoves]] 
[[Category:energy efficient cooking]] 
[[Category:carbon footprint]] 
[[Category:kerosene]] 
[[Category:safe cooking]] 
[[Category:Indoor air pollution]]