{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Waterborne diseases
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa
|Image=Kisii.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Water contamination has always been a huge problem in Africa, not only in rural areas but also even in some urban areas.  The water coming out of the tap or the water that is collected from natural resources are usually not satisfactory to meet the acceptable standard for direct drinking.  Boiling the water before use removes bacterial contamination.  However, boiling water uses large quantities of charcoal and firewood, putting a strain on the already limited resource of energy. In towns where company adds chlorine to the water, boiling would deplete all the antiseptics and leave the water unprotected for storage.

==Detailed description of the solution==
Kisii Filter Bucket is a water filter system composed of low-cost transparent PVC containers and a ceramic filter.  The upper bucket has a ceramic filter and the water filtered drips into the lower bucket.  The water can be used either through a small tap or can be stored in the bucket safely free from bacterial re-contamination.

==Designed by==
*Design: The Kisii Filter bucket was developed in collaboration with the Rural Water Development (RWD) Project in Kisii, Western Kenya in 2003.
*Manufacturing location: Western Kenya

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
This device is currently being used in Kenya, Niger. Similarly designed filters have been tested/used in Bolivia, Colombia, Zimbabwe.

==Funding Source==
This device receives funding from the Rural Water Development Project.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Clasen, T., J. Brown, O. Suntura, and S. Collin. "Safe Household Water Treatment and Storage Using Ceramic Drip Filters: a Randomised Controlled Trial in Bolivia." Water Science and Technology 50.1 (2004): 111-15.

Clasen, T., G. Garcia Parra, S. Boisson, and S. Collin. "Household-based Ceramic Water Filters for the Prevention of Diarrhea: a Randomized, Controlled Trial of a Pilot Program in Colombia." American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 73.4 (2005): 790-95.

Du Preez, M., RM Conroy, JA Wright, S. Moyo, N. Potgieter, and SW Gundry. "Use of Ceramic Water Filtration in the Prevention of Diarrheal Disease: a Randomized Controlled Trial in Rural South Africa and Zimbabwe." American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 79.5 (2008): 696-701.

===Externally generated reports===
Drinking water quality: Challenges and opportunities (2009).  ENVIS Newsletter, 2(1), 1-7. PDF available [http://www.devalt.org/envis-newsletter/ENVIS_Vol-02_No-01_(Apr-Jun_2009).pdf here].

Fairwater water pump. (n.d.). Handpump.org. Link available [http://www.handpump.org/kisii/ here].