This is a proposal for an event to support [[Knowledge sharing in practice|knowledge sharing]] in [[international development]] in 2010 or 2011, probably in [[Washington DC]].

== Why? ==
Hundreds of organizations in the USA alone offer some kind of technical support service to the development and relief sector.

Entire organizations are dedicated to the cause of sharing ‘know how’ to help make a difference in projects around the world.

Agencies invest time, money and some very clever people to help improve access to ‘know how’ for people in the field and for people wanting to find their own solutions.

This public event will bring together leading providers of technical knowledge for development and humanitarian relief.

== Fair ==

Your organisation is invited to exhibit its services at a stall in the fair and to present its work at drop-in sessions.

== Forum ==

The event will also provide a forum for you to discuss ideas and issues with other providers, which might include topics such as: knowledge management; open licensing; new technologies; collaboration and sharing; and private sector knowledge providers.

The forum is your event – let us know what you would like to discuss and how you want to use it.

== Similar events ==

It is based on the successful event [[http://www.knowhownow.org.uk Know How Now UK]].

== Dates ==

What are the best times, to avoid vacation periods, common reporting deadlines...?

== Location? ==

What are the most suitable locations in [[North America]]? 
* [[Washington DC]] - many international agencies, US-based and multilateral, NGO, government and private.
* [[San Francisco]] - many NGOs.

We could start with one, e.g. Washington DC, then repeat the event in San Francisco.

== Sponsoring organizations ==

Financial sponsorship - help make this a free event, to enable students and volunteers to participate.


In kind sponsorship - helping to promote or organize the event, or providing essential needs, e.g. a location.
* [[Appropedia Foundation]] and [[Appropedia community]] - support documentation needs through the wiki.

'''MAJOR NEEDS''' - to make the event happen, we must have:
* Organizers
* Suitable premises
* Financial sponsorship


== Participants ==

Are you interested in participating? 

Are you elsewhere in the world but keen to be involved online?
* [[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]]

[[Category:Events]]
[[Category:International development]] 
[[Category:North America]]
[[Category:United States]]