{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Waterborne diseases
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Kopper.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Over 3 million people die of diarrheal diseases each year. In the case of developing countries, a large portion of illnesses could be prevented if more people had access to water for hand washing, which is hard to find.  Also when traveling, it is hard to find access to clean water far from a fresh source.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The device uses a micro-filter to filter out contaminants larger than a micrometer and a piezoelectric powered electrolysis device to filter between 5 and 20mL of water at a time. It removes 99.99% of all parasites.

==Relevance to developing country settings==
This device was designed for use in developing countries, and as such is made from recyclable materials, which can be purchased for under A2.50. It requires no batteries or external power. It runs on piezoelectric power. Also, it only requires 5-20 mLs to clean a person's hand, suitable for areas with limited water supply. It is designed for use in limited-resource settings.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Balin Lee, from Sydney Australia

==References==
===Internally generated reports===
Lee, Balin. "Kopper by Balin Lee at Coroflot." Design Jobs & Portfolios. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2012. Link available [http://www.coroflot.com/bjl/Kopper here].

===Externally generated reports===
(7 Aug 2011). "Gallery - New stars of innovative sustainable design - Image 3 - New Scientist." Science news and science jobs from New Scientist - New Scientist. Link available [http://www.newscientist.com/gallery/new-stars-of-innovative-sustainable-design/3 here].

Smith, Mark. (8 Jan 2011). "UWS Latest News | University of Western Sydney (UWS)." UWS Internet Applications | University of Western Sydney (UWS). Link available [http://pubapps.uws.edu.au/news/index.php?act=view&story_id=3012 here].

Swamy, Piyali Narayan. (21 May 2011). "Kopper: Hi-tech hand washing device promises improved sanitation." Greendiary : Greendiary - Let's go green and save the environment for a sustainable future. Link available [http://www.greendiary.com/entry/kopper-hi-tech-hand-washing-device-promises-improved-sanitation/ here].