A '''laptop''' is a small/portable [[computer]].

Laptops typically may be powered either by [[batteries]] or by mains/grid electricity where available. 

For use where mains power is not available, research into developing small scale electrical [[generator]]s, [[solar power]], and improved batteries is ongoing. 

Laptops are commonly connected to the [[Internet]], where possible, through wired or wireless connections.

Laptop-type portable computers have the potential to greatly increase knowledge and communications for people in all areas of the world. 

Following "Moore's Law"{{w|Moore's law}}, the price of laptop computers has continually decreased and their power increased. It is now becoming possible to visualize laptop-type computers cheap enough to be available to [[poor]] people in both developing and developed countries. (For example, the [[One Laptop Per Child]] / [[OLPC]] project.)

Additionally, reduced size and expense of computer components is resulting in a merger of computer and [[cellular phone]] technologies ("[[smart phones]]", from fairly basic models through the iPhone{{w|Iphone}} (TM) from Apple, Inc (TM), the N95 from Nokia Corporation (TM), or the 8525 from AT&T Mobility (TM)(formerly Cingular). (see http://blogs.zdnet.com/mobile-gadgeteer/?p=269 )


Environmental impact of laptop production and disposal is a concern.

== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:Laptop computer]]
* [http://www.mac-how.net how to restore a mac]
* [http://www.techienow.com/PC-remote-services/PC-Optimization.aspx fix a slow computer]	

[[Category:Information technology]]