LeapingStone is nascent non-profit working to enable universal primary education in West Africa.  Leapingstone received its 501c3 in April, 2008.  The organizations web site and logo are still under-construction.

==Board members==
*Natalie Huberman, President
*Melayha Fluke, Vice President
*Jann Carr, Secretary
*[[User:Curtbeckmann|Curt Beckmann]], Treasurer
*Emmanualle Almeras
*Jaime Grant

LEAPINGSTONE MOKR 2008-2009

==Mission through 2010==
Achieve sustainable "Tipping Point" quality education levels in in Dedeke, a village in [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Togo Togo] roughly 30 miles from the capital city, [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lom%C3%A9 Lomé].

==Objectives==
Create infrastructure to facilitate and support
development and allocation of capital.
Draft and execute a fund-raising strategy sufficient
to generate $xxx,000 through 2009.
Develop and execute an allocation strategy.
Implement a branding and marketing strategy.

==Key Results==
* Create infrastructure to facilitate and support development and allocation of capital.
*Obtain NFP status. Q1 (Done)
*Open bank accounts. Q2 (done)
*Obtain contact data (phone, fax, URL) Q1
*Draft a strategy to ensure adequate oversight of fund distribution. Q1
*Develop an investment strategy that creates a sustainable and growing endowment. Q2
*Draft a budget that includes all operations and charitable donations. Q1
*Develop an expenditure policy/strategy. Q1
*Draft and execute a fund-raising strategy sufficient to generate $xxx,000 through 2009.
* Create a broad and manageable fund-raising strategy. Q1
* Draft a donor presentation. Q1
* Develop and maintain a donor prospect database. Q1
* Determine whether we are eligible for grants and apply for them if so. Q2
* Raise $25,000. Q3
* Raise $xxx,000. Q109
* Develop and execute an allocation strategy.
* Draft plan for how LS distributes funds in Africa (see oversight goal above). Q1
* Send xxx children to school. Q209
===Implement a branding and marketing strategy.===
* Develop corporate identity (logo, etc.) Q1
* Launch a purpose-built web site that both evangelizes the LS message and generates donations. Q2
* Develop network of like-minded NGO. Q3
* Draft a white-paper on the impact of primary education on health, [[poverty]], and domestic violence. Q3


{{OSN Member}}