{{QASpage}}

The following is the list of papers and other sources used in the Journal of Sustainable Development article:
 [[Leveraging Solar Photovoltaic Technology for Sustainable Development in Ontario's Aboriginal Communities]]:
----

Alsema, E.A., & Nieuwlaar, E. (2000). Energy viability of photovoltaic systems. Energy Policy, 28,14, 999-1010.

Bilen, K., Ozyurt, O., Bakirci, K., Karsli, S., Erdogan, S., Yilmaz, M., & Comakli, O. (2008). Energy production, consumption, and environmental pollution for sustainable development: A case study in Turkey. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 12,6, 1529-1561.

Brown, O., Hammill, A., & McLeman, R. (2007). Climate change as the ‘new’ security threat: implications for Africa. International Affairs, 83, 6, 1141-1154.

Canada Revenue Agency (CRA), 2008,  Information for Status Indians. [Online] Available: 
www.cra-arc.gc.ca/brgnls/stts-eng.html#heading5 (December 1, 2009)

Climate Action Network Australia (CANA), 2006, Indigenous Communities. 

Duan, R.Y., & Chang, C.T. (2008). A novel high-efficiency inverter for stand-alone and grid-connected systems. Industrial Electronics and Applications, ICIEA 2008, 557-562.

Ellis, B., O’Neil, J., & Yassi, A. (1997). Wollaston Lake: The Uranium Mining Industry and the Perceptions of Health Risks. Commissioned Report for the Centre for 
Aboriginal Health Research. 

Erasmus, G. (1989). Twenty years of disappointed hopes. In Drum Beat: Anger and Renewal in Indian Country: Summerhill Press. Toronto. 

ESRI, 2009, ArcGIS: A Complete Integrated System. [Online] Available: http://www.esri.com/software/arcgis/ (October 18, 2009)

Five Nations Energy Inc (FNEI),2009, Five Nations Energy Inc: Bringing power to Western James Bay. [Online] Available: http://www.fivenations.ca/index.html (January 20, 2010)

Gipe, P., 2009, Ontario Rockets to Top Ten of Solar PV in North America. RenewableEnergyWorld.com. [Online] Available: http://www.renewableenergyworld.com/rea/news/article/2009/10/ontario-rockets-to-top-ten-of-solar-pv-in-north-america (October 7, 2009)

Green M.A. (2000). Photovoltaics: technology overview. Energy Policy, 28, 14, 989-998.

Hansen, J., Sato, M., Ruedy, R., Kharecha, P., Lacis, A., Miller, R.L., & et al. (2007). Dangerous human-made interference with climate: a GISS modelE study. Atmospheric Chemistry & Physics, 7, 9, 2287-2312.

Hrayshat, E. (2009). Viability of solar photovoltaics as an electricity energy source. Renewable Energy, 34, 10, 2133-2140.

Indian and Northern Affairs Canada (INAC), 1996, Highlights from the report of the Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples. [Online] Available: http://www.ainc-inac.gc.ca/ap/pubs/rpt/rpt-eng.asp (November 27, 2009)

Indian and Northern Affairs Canada (INAC), 2009, Aboriginal Peoples and Communities. [Online] Available: http://www.ainc-inac.gc.ca/ap/index-eng.asp (November 27, 2009)

Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). (2008). Climate Change 2007: Synthesis Report. Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, United Kingdom.

International Energy Agency (IEA). (2008). National Survey Report of PV Power Applications in Canada 2008. Department of Natural Resources Canada: Varennes, Canada.

Jackson, T., & Oliver, M. (2000). The viability of solar photovoltaics. Energy Policy, 28, 14, 983-998.

Kazmerski, L.L. (2006). Solar photovoltaics R&D at the tipping point: A 2005 technology overview. Journal of Electron Spectroscopy and Related Phenomena, 150, 105-135. 

Kenny, R., Law, C., & Pearce, J.M. (2010). Towards Real Energy Economics: Energy Policy Driven by Life-Cycle Carbon Emission. Energy Policy, 38, 1969–1978.

Kimmett, C., (2009, July 24), First Nation Takes Lead on Solar Power. The Tyee. [Online] Available: http://thetyee.ca/News/2009/07/24/FirstNationSolarPower/ (February 1, 2010)

Lehmann, H., & Peter, S. (2003). Assessment of roof & façade potentials for solar use in Europe. Institute for sustainable solutions and innovations (ISUSI): Aachen, Germany.

Loppie, C., & Wien, F. (2009). Health Inequalities and Social Determinants of Aboriginal Peoples' Health. National Collaborative Centre for Aboriginal Health. 

Malhotra, P. (2006). Management of community based energy interventions in rural areas of India: issues and perspectives. Sustainable Development, 14, 1, 33-45. 

Mhyre, G., Alterskjaer, K., & Lowe, D. (2009). A fast method for updating global fossil fuel carbon dioxide emissions. Environmental Research Letters 403412. 

National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL). (2006). A Review of PV Inverter Technology Cost and Performance Projections. U.S. Department of Energy

NEED Project. (2007). Solar Energy: Teacher Guide. Manassas, Virginia.

Ontario Financing Authority (OFA), (2009), Overview of the Aboriginal Loan Guaranteed Program (ALGP). [Online] Available: http://www.ofina.on.ca/algp/program/overview.htm (December 1, 2009)

Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources (OMNR), (2009).  [Online] Available: http://www.mnr.gov.on.ca/en/index.html  (October 18, 2009)

Ontario Power Authority (OPA), (2009), Feed-In Tariff Program. [Online] Available:      http://fit.powerauthority.on.ca/Page.asp?PageID=1115&SiteNodeID=1052 (November 27, 2009) 

OpenOffice.org, (2009), The free and open productivity suite. [Online] Available: http://www.openoffice.org/ (October 12, 2009)

Osborne, M., (2009, September 22), Oerlikon Solar uses TCO contacts to reach 10% efficiencies with single junction a-Si cell. PV Tech.org. [Online] Available: 
http://www.pv-tech.org/news/_a/oerlikon_solar_uses_tco_contacts_to_reach_10_efficiencies_with_single_junct/ (February1, 2010) 

Pearce, J.M. (2002). Photovoltaics – a path to sustainable futures. Futures, 34, 7, 663-674.

Pearce, J.M., & Lau, A. (2002). Net Energy Analysis For Sustainable Energy Production From Silicon Based Solar Cells. Proceedings of American Society of Mechanical Engineers Solar 2002: Sunrise on the Reliable Energy Economy. Ed. R. Cambell-Howe.

Pembina Institute, (2007), Kyoquot. [Online] Available: http://communities.pembina.org/partners/kyuquot (January 15, 2010)

QGIS. (2009). Quantum GIS: “Enceladus”. [Online] Available: http://www.qgis.org/ (January 14, 2009)

Renewable Energy Policy Network for the 21st Century (REN 21). (2009). Renewables Global Status Report 2009 Update. REN21 Secretariat and Worldwatch Institute: Paris and Washington D.C. 

RETScreen International, (2009), Renewable energy project analysis software. [Online] Available:
http://www.retscreen.net/ (October 12, 2009)

Rylatt, M., Gadsden, S., & Lomas, K. (2000). GIS-based decision support for solar energy planning in urban environments. Computers, Environment and Urban Systems, 25, 6, 579-603.

NASA: Atmospheric Science Data Center. (2009). Surface meteorology and solar energy. [Online] Available: http://eosweb.larc.nasa.gov/sse/ (October 12, 2009)

Nguyen, H.T., & Pearce, J.M. (2010). Estimating Potential Photovoltaic Yield with r.sun and the Open Source Geographical Resources Analysis Support System. Solar Energy, 84, 831-843.

Schumaker, E. F. (1973). Small is beautiful: economics as if people mattered. New York: Harper & Row.

Smitherman, G. (2009). Bill 150, An Act to enact the Green Energy Act, 2009 and to build a green economy, to repeal the Energy Conservation Leadership Act, 2006 and the Energy Efficiency Act and to amend other statutes, 2009. Legislative Assembly of Ontario.

Statistics Canada, (2009), Census 2006: Constance Lake.[Online] Available:  http://www12.statcan.ca/census-recensement/ 2006/dp-pd/prof/92-594/details/page.cfm?Lang=E&Geo1=CSD&Code1=3556095&Geo2=PR&Code2=35&Data= Count&SearchText=constance%20lake&SearchType=Begins&SearchPR=01&B1=All&Custom= (November 24, 2009)

Stern, N. (2007). The Economics of Climate Change: The Stern Review. Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Union of Concerned Scientists. (2003). Renewables are Ready: A Guide to Teaching Renewable Energy in Junior and Senior High School Classrooms. Cambridge, Massachusetts. 

Wiginton, L.K., Nguyen H. T., & Pearce, J.M. (2010). Quantifying Solar Photovoltaic Potential on a Large Scale for Renewable Energy Regional Policy. Computers, Environment and Urban Systems, 34, 345-357. 

Williams, C., & Rand, J. (2000). Evaluation of Photovoltaic Panels at the South Pole Station. Cold Regions Energy and Research Laboratory.

[[category: Queens Applied Sustainability Group Literature Reviews ]]
[[category:photovoltaics]]