Activities for building confidence and expanding horizons.

All of these are inspiring activities. Some in particular are life-changing, but it's hard to predict what will have the greatest impact.

== School students ==

* [[Sprout seeds]] and watch them grow - both in bottles with water, and in [[soil]].
* [[Grow food]] and eat it.
* Learn to cook tasty, healthy food.
* Make a [[solar cooker]], prepare food and eat it. Don't forget the "WARNING: HOT SURFACE" signs (and other precautions, depending on age). Try different kinds, from a simple black-painted tin, with or without reflectors (foil and cardboard) (this can work in a hot sunny place, to more complex box types.
* Understand a completely different perspective or opinion, that would previously have been dismissed as ridiculous (through debating; meeting people from other cultures and backgrounds...)
* [[Community service]], whether simple things like visiting people in care homes or building something for the community. Experiencing the satisfaction that comes from doing something for another person.
* Make [[compost]]
* Keep a worm bin

== High school and college/university students ==

* Learn a [[language]] by [[immersion (language learning)|immersion]]. Classes and books help, but immersion is key to learning and having an amazing experience.
* Engage in [[service learning]] projects.
* Work on a multidisciplinary design/build project outside of the department under which you're currently studying.
 
{{stub}}

[[Category: Education]]
[[Category: Inspiration]]