{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Tuberculosis, 
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=North America
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
The accurate and timely detection of tuberculosis (TB) is critical in limiting the spread of the disease. As such, new methods are under development that are fast, accurate, inexpensive, and portable, meeting the needs of resource-limited environments where the disease is most prevalent.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The device utilizes luciferase reporter mycobacteriophages (LRM), which are assays that emit light when they interact with live TB bacteria in a sample of saliva/sputum. The project is centered on developing a versatile luminescence detection tool to capture and interpret the emitted light. The test can provide results within a day, compared to at least one week for most traditional methods. Finally, a disposable-type testing cartridge is being developed, allowing for rapid and easier preparation of samples for testing. 

==Designed by==
*Designed by: The project is a collaborative effort between InterScience, UAlbany, the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University, and SUNY Downstate Medical Center.
*Manufacturer (if different): InterScience develops the imaging system, intelligent computer algorithm, and overall integration of the TB detection system while UAlbany is developing the disposable cartridges.
*Manufacturer location: n/a

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Clinical testing of a prototype was planned at the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center.

==Funding Source==
InterScience received $750,000 grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) (2001).

==References==
===Other internally generated reports===
*UAlbany Magazine. “A Faster Way to Diagnose TB” (2001). Retrieved on Aug 7, 2014 from http://www.albany.edu/about_the_university/research_at_ualbany/materials_institute/.

*UAlbany Magazine. “UAlbany joins the America East Conference” (2001). Retrived on Aug 7, 2014 from http://www.albany.edu/pr/ualbanymagspring01/podium.htm.

===Externally generated reports===
*Ware V. “Stategies for mitigating the global health threat of TB” (Nov 8, 2013). Retrieved on Aug 7 2014 from http://www.lehigh.edu/~inbios21/PDF/Fall2013/Ware_11082013.pdf.

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->