{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Tuberculosis
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=LungFlute.png
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Obtaining a non-invasive, inexpensive TB diagnostic test is a significant issue in developing countries.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Lung flute is a non-invasive, low-cost device used to obtain sputum from patients and to diagnose tuberculosis.  It is also used as a therapy device for tuberculosis.

==Designed by==
*Design and Manufacturing by: Medical Acoustics
*Location: 6440 Ellicott St., 4th Floor, Buffalo, New York, 14203 USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
This device was tested and developed in Buffalo, New York.  It was also tested in Tokyo, Japan.
Distributors are available in Canada, USA, Germany, Italy, Greece, Lebanon, India, Korea, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Australia.

==Funding Source==
Private sources.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Fujita, A., Murata, K., Takamori, M. (2009). Novel method for sputum induction using the Lung Flute in patients with suspected pulmonary tuberculosis. Journal of the Asia Pacific Society for Respirology, 14, 899-902.

===Other internally generated reports===
Medical Acoustics. Instructions for use for Healthcare Professionals. PDF available [http://lungflute.com/PDF/LungFlute-Diagnostic-Hospitals-Clinics-IFU.pdf here].

Medical Acoustics. Efficacy and safety of a new acoustic device, the Lung Flute, for sputum induction in healthy non-smokers and chronic bronchitis. PDF available [http://lungflute.com/PDF/efficacy-safety-new-acoustic-device-lung-flute-sputum-induction-healthy-non-smokers-chronic-bronchitis.pdf here].

Medical Acoustics. Safety and efficacy of sputum induction with the Lung Flute compared with sputum induction with hypertonic saline and saliva.
School of Medicine, University at Buffalo/VA Western NY Healthcare System. PDF available [http://lungflute.com/PDF/clinical-study-safety-efficacy-sputum-induction-lung-flute-compared-hypertonic-saline-saliva.pdf here].

Smit, N. Physics and Physiology of the Lung Flute. PDF available [http://lungflute.com/PDF/lungflute-physics-physiology.pdf here].

===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===
FDA 510(k) Clearance of Lung Flute has been obtained for home care (2010) and for sputum induction for diagnostic purposes (2006). Received CE Mark clearance and is registered in the EU (2008).