This article describes how to pickle cabbage, to make "kimchi".

== Pickling cabbage ==
PICKLED CABBAGE (KIMCHI) Kimchi  is probably the most important processed food product in Korea. It is an essential dish, eaten at most mealtimes. Production is estimated at over one million tons, mainly at household level. Daily consumption is estimated at 150 to 250 grams per person. Kimchi  is a general name for a range of closely related fermented products. It is similar to Sauerkraut in Europe and the United States. There are numerous variations of  kimchi depending on the production technique. The main pickled cabbage  kimchis  are   tongbaechu- kimchi   tongkimchi  and   bossam-kimchi.  This section refers to  kimchi  produced from cabbage, the following section deals with pickled radish products. 

==Raw material preparation==
Appropriate cultivars of Chinese cabbage, with light-green coloured soft leaves and compact structure with no defects, are required for production of  kimchi . After removing outer leaves and roots from the cabbage, it is cut into small pieces. 

==Processing==
The prepared cabbage is placed in a salt solution (8-15%) for two to seven hours to obtain 2.0-4.0% (w/w) salt content in the cabbages. This is then rinsed several times with fresh water and drained to remove extra water by centrifugation or by standing still. Kimchi  fermentation is carried out by various micro-organisms present in the raw materials and ingredients of   kimchi . Among the two hundred bacteria isolated form kimchi, the important micro-organisms in   kimch i fermentation are known to be   Lactobacillus plantarum, L. Brevis, Streptococcus faecalis, Leuconostoc mesenteroides  and  Pediococcus pentosaceus. After fermentation, the product can be left to mature for several weeks if refrigeration is available. If stored in the warmth, the  kimchi  deteriorates rapidly.
 
==Steps==
Korean cabbage 
* Cut into four parts 
* Add brine 5% for 12 hours or 15% for 7hours 
* Rinse, drain water 
* Mix with salt, spices and flavourings 
* Ferment 

[[Category:ITDGbotkeep]]
[[Category:Vegetables]]
[[Category:How tos]]