A '''sail''' is any type of surface intended to move a vessel, vehicle or rotor by being placed in the wind. It is in essence a wing used for propulsion. Sails are can be made from various materials and strengthened using specific liquid mixtures.

==Source materials==
{{Main|Appropriate textile production manual}}
Any type of natural material also used to make textile can be used, knowingly:
cotton, wool, kashmere, hemp, sisal, silk, kenaf, jute, ramie, linen, lyocell

==Doping==
Doping, or impregnating the textile with a liquid to make it tougher can also be done. Since most sails are intented for outdoor use, it is often a good idea to this this as it increases the life span of the sail.

Throughout history, a variety of dopes has been developed:
* a popular dope for windmill sails was: 10 liter water, combined with 0,75 liter linseed oil, 0,75 liter grease, and 1 kg of bolus. <ref>Werken met molens by Werkgroep West-Vlaamse Molens v.z.w.</ref><ref>[http://www.heimolen.be/constructie.html Bolus used for windmill sail]</ref>
* cellulose_acetate
* cellulose acetate butyrate
* nitrocellulose
* certain other lacquers, varnishes, [[resin]]s ...

Synthetic dopes are often better in toughening the textile, and thus require only treatment or only a few treatments a year. However, the products can be a lot harder to attain, cost more and are environmentally unfriendly. Due to the latter issue, it is also advisable that the textile is burned when it becomes worn. 

==External links== 
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Armenian_bole
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aircraft_fabric_covering
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aircraft_dope

==References==
{{reflist}}

[[Category:Textiles]]