{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=HIV/AIDS
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa
|Image=Defender.png
|Image Caption=Defender
}}
==Problem being addressed==
It has been shown that male circumcision can reduce the transmission of HIV/AIDS by up to 60% (WHO/UNAIDS 2010). Therefore, international organizations such as the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) have been promoting male circumcision as a safe intervention in regions with a high rates of HIV such as sub-Saharan Africa. International organizations and African Ministries of Health are seeking ways to increase the safety of traditional male circumcision (TMC), of which often involve a ceremony symbolizing a rite of passage or a solidified identity with a tribe (ibid).  There have been efforts to increase training in the procedure and for the distribution of clean tools (bandages, blades, cotton and string) since there have been issues with sanitation, obtaining adequate materials and proper healing.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This device was designed to be incorporated into traditional male circumcision ceremonies, to help reduce the adverse events that may arise from traditional methods of male circumcision such as difficult healing or infection (WHO/UNAIDS 2010).  It was designed to be culturally sensitive, for the possible integration into the traditional ceremonies as a safety precaution.

==Invented/designed by==
*Invented/designed by: The University of Michigan - Lab for Innovation in Global Health Technologies (LIGHT). [http://sienkolab.engin.umich.edu/drupal/node/77]
*Location: Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
This device is still in the prototype stage. 

==Funding Source==
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. 

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Sarvestani, A. S., Bufumbo, L., Geiger, J. D., & Sienko, K. H. (2012). Traditional Male Circumcision in Uganda: A Qualitative Focus Group Discussion Analysis. PloS one, 7(10), e45316. [http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0045316]

Lemmermen, K. A., T. F. Van Wingen, et al. (2010). "Adult male circumcision tool for use in traditional ceremonies." Journal of Medical Devices, Transactions of the ASME 4(4).

===Externally Generated Reports===
WHO/UNAIDS (2010). "Traditional Male Circumcision in the Context of HIV Prevention." PDF available [http://www.who.int/hiv/pub/malecircumcision/traditional_mc_meetreport_apr10.pdf here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->