'''Meat''' is [[animal]] [[flesh]] that is eaten as [[food]]. It often refers to the flesh of [[mammal]]ian species (pigs, cattle, lambs, etc.) and not to the flesh of [[Seafood|fish and other seafood]], [[poultry]], and other animals.<ref>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meat</ref>

==Impacts of flesh of mammalian and non-mammalian species on the environment==
The environmental impact of meat production greatly depends on factors such as:
* the type of meat/animal,<ref>Aquatic animals are generally very efficient animals for producing animal flesh. This as there are several advantages of water as a growth medium. Aquatic animals can convert more of their food into growth since they do not need to support their own weight.</ref><ref>Even crustaceans such as lobsters are partly buoyed by the water and only need to support a fraction of their weight.</ref><ref>Most fish do not spend energy to regulate their body temperature. In addition, water is a three-dimensional growing space, so yields per unit area can be quite high when compared to land-based farming.</ref><ref>[http://www.worldchanging.com/archives/008096.html Cows Aren't Part of a Climate-Healthy Diet, Study Says]</ref><ref>According to [http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/journal/03016226/96/1 Livestock Farming Systems and their Environmental Impacts] (see Quest magazine, september 2009):
* 1 kg of porc meat produced  3,9 to 10 kg CO², 8,9 to 12,1 m² of land is required (land use)
* 1 kg of beef (cattle) produced 14 to 32 kg CO², 27 to 49 m² of land is required (land use)
* 1 kg of milk produced 0,8 to 1,3 kg CO², 1,1 to 2 m² of land is required (land use)
* 1 kg of chicken meat produced 3,7 to 6,9 kg CO², 8,1 to 9,9 m² of land is required (land use)
* 1 kg of eggs produced 3,9 to 4,9 kg CO², 4,5 to 6,2 m² of land is required (land use)

A car generates 1 kg of co² per 6 km</ref><ref>http://edepot.wur.nl/138168 and http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1871141309003692</ref>
* the feed used 

==Adopting a diet that does not include animal flesh==
{{Main|Ecologic diet}}

==References==
{{reflist}}

==See also==
* [[Meat production]]
* [[Meat and food processing]]
* [[Meat birds]]

==External links==
* [http://environment.newscientist.com/article/mg19526134.500?DCMP=NLC-nletter&nsref=mg19526134.500 Meat is murder on the environment] - New Scientist, - 18 July 2007. "A kilogram of beef is responsible for more greenhouse gas emissions and other pollution than driving for 3 hours while leaving all the lights on back home."
* [http://vegan.wiki.yt/ Vegan.wiki.yt]

{{stub}}

[[Category:Food choices]]