=Abstract=
When the Clean Air Act was found to be violated in 2004 the areas that were over the smog standards were told that they needed to control the amount of pollution that was put into the air.  In one the the many areas that needed to fix their pollution.  One Latino dry cleaner was targeted by his community to be against the law.  The African American Environmental Association decided to help this man by proving that he was not in violation of the law.  It turns out the the other dry cleaners were trying to run the man out of buisness because he was challenging the other buisness owners to lowering their price.  

==Clean Air Act== 
The [[Clean Air Act]] was to control the air pollution in the United States of America.  

==The different levels of pollutant problems==
Areas given the title of basic level was given to the year 2007 to meet the standards.
The areas given the severe rating have until the year 2021 to fix the problems.   

==The Violations of the Clean Air Act in Washington DC==
The Washington DC area is considered to be an area that has severe problems.  In the summer of 2003 Washington DC was the source of the worst pollution since the 1990's.  There were twenty-eight days in which the pollution levels were so bad that it was dangerous to children and the elderly, as well as asthmatics and other people with respiratory illnesses.     

==Two More rules were drafted to cut down on air pollution==
1) To cut power plant emissions by 70% by the year 2015.
2) Lower the surfer emissions from on and off road vehicles. 

==Source== 
African American Environmental Association  http://groups.msn.com/AAEA/metrodcair.msnw

--[[User:Teresa Garrison|Teresa Garrison]] 18:37, 25 October 2007 (PDT)
[[Category:African American Environmentalist Association]]