{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Blood.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Hemorrhage is one of the leading causes of death in developing countries due to the lack of donated blood. Several problems exist with the current blood donation practices. In many developing nations, less than 0.25% of the population donates blood. Also, in many remote areas white blood cells are not separated out which is unsafe because white blood cells can illicit an immune response.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This mini blood bank is a portable disposable blood separation device which uses hollow microfibers and gravity to separate the blood components. This allows portable blood banks to exist in maternal health centers.

==Describe its relevance for resource-constrained settings==
Resource-limited settings are often in dire need of donated blood and lack the capability to easily prepare blood. This device is portable which allows for use in more remote health centers. Clinical trials are being conducted in Malawi and Tamil Nadu, India.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Hemacon GmbH
*Manufacturer: Hammer Dorfstrasse 39, 40221 Dusseldorf, Germany

==References==
===Other internally generated reports===
Hemacon. (2011, July 20). Mini-Blood Banks for Life Saving Red Blood Cells: Where Needed & When Needed. Link available [http://www.savinglivesatbirth.net/summaries/100 here].

===Externally generated reports===
Maternova. (2011, October 1). Mini Blood Banks.  Link available [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/mini-blood-banks here].

===IP and copyright===
International Patent application number: PCT/EP2011/062370. Filing date 19 July 2011.