{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=North America
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Pre-eclampsia affects over three million mothers worldwide each year and is also associated with premature birth. Regular blood pressure (BP) monitoring is a cost-effective means of identifying hypertensive diseases in their early stages. However, there are currently no effective ways to detect a women’s likelihood to suffer from pre-eclampsia prior to developing the condition.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The research done to advance this device is the first major development of a reliable biomarker diagnostic that can accurately predict the onset of pre-eclampsia. The presence of this biomarker also strongly suggests that pre-eclampsia is characterized by abnormal placenta formation which limits the amount of oxygen that can be delivered to the developing fetus during pregnancy. If these biomarkers can detect pre-eclampsia at its earliest stages, there is a high likelihood that maternal and infant death resulting from this condition can be reduced.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Dr. Isabella Caniggia of the Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute 
*Manufacturer location: Manitoba, Canada
 
==Funding Source==
Miraculins, Inc.

==References==

===Other internally generated reports===
Miraculins Inc. (2013, March 11). Miraculins to License Additional Preeclampsia  Technology from Mount Sinai Hospital. Retrieved from [http://www.miraculins.com/press_releases.aspx?id=177 here]

===Externally generated reports===
Miraculins Inc. (2010, July 13). Miraculins Announces Issuance of Important Preeclampsia Patent in United States. Marketwired.com. Retrieved from [http://www.marketwired.com/press-release/Miraculins-Announces-Issuance-of-Important-Preeclampsia-Patent-in-United-States-1289175.htm here]

(2013). Miraculins Pre-Eclampsia Markers. Mandate. Retrieved from [http://mnhtech.org/technology/technologies-in-development/miraculins-pre-eclampsia-markers/ here]

===IP and copyright===
US Patent 7,754,495 entitled "Methods for Early Diagnosing of an Increased Risk of Preeclampsia"

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->