To the modern eye, these procedures seem unlikely but should be experimented with. Here's a place that a [[Wiki]] shines. Place your observations and experiences in the discussion section for this page.

_________________________

(From the [[Household Cyclopedia]] (1881) 

'''Preservation of Eggs.'''

A writer says: The best method I know of to preserve eggs is to fill the pores of the shell with fresh, clean [[lard]], so as to exclude all the air. It is my opinion that this simple and easy method is preferable to any now in use. Some put them in [[lime]]-water, some lay them down in [[salt]], some put them in saw-dust. But the lime cooks them, so that they have a dried appearance; salt has a similar effect, while eggs saturated with lard (as far as my experience goes) open fresh and nice. In Paris, however, where they understand these things thoroughly, eggs are preserved by immersion in hot water, as follows: Water is made to boil in a kettle, a dozen eggs are put into a colander, which is plunged into the kettle, left there about a minute, and then withdrawn with the eggs. By this means a thin layer or yolk becomes coagulated, and forms in the interior surface of the shell a sort of coating, which opposes itself to the evaporation of the substance of the egg, and consequently to the contact of the air which rushes in to fill the void left by the evaporation.

'''A Method of Preserving Lime-Juice.'''

The juice, having been expressed from the fruit, was strained and put into quart bottles; these having been carefully corked, were put into a pan of cold water, which was then by degrees raised to the boiling point. At that temperature it was kept for half an hour, and was then allowed to cool down to the temperature of the air. After being bottled for 8 months the juice was in the state of a whitish, turbid liquor, with the acidity and much of the flavor of the lime; nor did it appear to have undergone any alteration. Some of the juice, which had been examined the year before, and which had since only been again heated and carefully bottled, was still in good condition, retaining much of the flavor of the recent juice. Hence it appears that, by the application of the above process, the addition of rum or other spirit to lime or lemon-juice, may be avoided, without rendering it at all more liable to spontaneous alteration.

'''To Preserve Milk.'''

Provide bottles, which must be perfectly clean, sweet, and dry. Draw the milk from the cow into the bottles, and, as they are filled, immediately cork them well up, and fasten the corks with pack-thread or wire. Then spread a little straw on the bottom of a boiler, on which place the bottles with straw between them until the boiler contains a sufficient quantity. Fill it up with cold water, heat the water, and as soon as it begins to boil draw the fire, and let the whole gradually cool. When quite cold take out the bottles, and pack them with straw or saw-dust in hampers, and stow them in the coolest part of the house or ship. Milk preserved in this manner, although 18 months in the bottles, will be as sweet as when first milked from the cow.

'''To Preserve Cabbages and other Esculent Vegetables Fresh during a Sea Voyage or a Severe Winter.
'''

Cut the cabbage so as to leave about 2 inches or more of the stem attached to it; after which scoop out the pith to about the depth of 1 inch, taking care not to wound or bruise the rind by the operation. Suspend the cabbage by means of a cord tied around the stem, so that that portion of it from which the pith is taken remains uppermost, which regularly fill every morning with fresh water. By this simple method cabbages, cauliflowers, broccoli, etc. may be preserved fresh during a long voyage, or in a severe winter, for domestic use.

==See also==
* [[Food preservation and storage]]

==External links==
* http://www.savefoodfromthefridge.com/

[[Category:Food preserving]]
[[Category:Household Cyclopedia]]