{{MOST}}
{{Lit}}

This literature review helped support the following publication:
* Svetlana V. Obydenkova and Joshua M. Pearce. [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2015.12.036 Technical viability of mobile solar photovoltaic systems for indigenous nomadic communities in northern latitudes]. ''Renewable Energy'', 89,253–267 (2016). DOI:10.1016/j.renene.2015.12.036 [https://www.academia.edu/19768317/Technical_viability_of_mobile_solar_photovoltaic_systems_for_indigenous_nomadic_communities_in_northern_latitudes open access]

==Literature==

'''Adiyabat, A., Kurokawa, K., 2002. Performance analysis of portable photovoltaic power generation systems based on measured data in Mongolia. Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 2002. Conference Record of the Twenty-Ninth IEEE 1664 – 1667.''' [http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/articleDetails.jsp?arnumber=1190937].

The paper describes exploitation of a portable PV system designated to provide electric power for nomadic camps in Mongolia. The locations are featured low temperatures and humidity.
The portable system consists of a PV module, comprising a PV panel with rated output of 204 W and leg block, charge controller, inverter, two lead-acid batteries of 12V, 70 Ah and also data acquisition unit. The system is rated at a load of approximately 280 Wh/day that provides electric power for radio, television, incandescent and fluorescent lamps.
Yearly average in-plane irradiance varies from 4.71 to 4.88 kWh/m2 per day. Due to higher electric power demand and lower irradiance during winter season, disconnection losses are lower in winter and higher in summer time.
Special attention should be paid to recurring of electrolyte due to its high rate of evaporation and gassing. If batteries temperature is kept above 10°C when outdoor temperature under -20°C, it does not affect at batteries lifetime.

'''Andrew Higiera, Adrian Arbidea, Amer Awaada, Justo Eiroaa, Jerry Millera, Norman Munroea, Alfredo Ravineta, Brian Reddinga, 2013. Design, development and deployment of a hybrid renewable energy powered mobile medical clinic with automated modular control system. Renewable Energy 50, 847–857.''' [http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960148112004703].

Thin-film photovoltaic panels of 4.8 kW, as a part of hybrid system, comprising also two wind turbines, are used to serve electric load of a mobile medical clinic in Dominican Republic. 
The thin-film PV amorphous silicon cells, produced by Ascent, are incorporated in the thermal fly of the tent.
Lithium-iron-phosphate batteries are selected as this type is considered to be safer than Li-ion battery and allows to simplify the battery management system.


'''M. Suha Yazici, H. Ayhan Yavasoglu, M. Eroglu, 2013. A mobile off-grid platform powered with photovoltaic/wind/battery/fuel cell hybrid power systems. International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 38, 11639–11645.''' [http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S036031991300877X].

doi:10.1016/j.ijhydene.2013.04.025

The mobile application of 2.7 kW energy production system, comprising 6 PV monocrystalline panels of 285 W each and 1 kW@12.5 m/s permanent magnet synchronous wind generator as a primary energy source; 6 units of 240 Ah, 12 V gel type batteries  and 5000 standard litre 10 bar metal hydride hydrogen storage as primary and secondary energy storage, respectively; 10 bar PEM electrolyser with one standard litre per minute production capacity and water puriﬁer. 
Electric load is shared by air conditioner, refrigerator, LCD TV, electrolyser, lighting, water heater. The application was deployed in Istanbul, Turkey.
 

'''Duran, D., Martinez, I., Weber, B., Rincon, E. Juarez, J., 2014. Design of a mobile photovoltaic module system for demonstration and experimentation. Energy Procedia   57,  32 – 38.''' [http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1876610214013721].

The paper considers a variant of a training portable system, comprising 2 or 4 135 W polycrystalline PV panels with the dimensions of 1481 mm × 671 mm each. The system also includes 4 and 12 V lead acid batteries, a charge controller, inverter and control panel.
The system structure includes a mobile table and telescopic arms (the basic scheme is provided).
The PV panels are settled on a pivot enabling to change the PV panels tilt. The height of the PV panels is adjusted by the use of the telescopic arms. 
The device price is of about US$ 10,000.