<!-- Comments that appear only in the edit view are formatted like this. -->
<!-- These comments are offered as an aid as you get started. Remove as you wish. -->
<!-- next line is the code for inserting an image; delete if you don't have an image yet -->


== Understanding the market ==

PC104 stacks are commonly used in automation and controls applications which could be a potentially hazardous environment for sensitive electronics

== Project goals ==

The goal for this project was to create an easily 3D printed, easily modifiable, and fully modular case for a PC104 stack of unknown size.

== Design ==

{{Gallery
|width=180
|height=135
|title= Modular PC104 Stack Enclosure
|lines=4
|Image:pc104sb.jpg|[http://3dprint.nih.gov/discover/3dpx-002171 PC104 Stack NIH]
|Image:pc104sm.jpg|Stack Middle
|Image:pc104st.jpg|Stack Top
|Image:cc_base.jpg|Cable Clamp Base
|Image:cc_top.jpg|Cable Clamp Top
}}

===Variables===
Height should be 17mm for a single and 34 for a double height module.
Keep the outer clearance above 12.7mm to allow room for mating connectors.
Decreasing wall thickness beyond 10mm may compromise mounting holes.
The connector holes are stored in an array of an array of parameters. [pins2cablewidth(# pins),cable thickness,side,x offset,y offset]
#side starts at 0 on the ISA bus side and increments as you rotate counterclockwise.
#x offset is from bottom left corner of PC104 module (when the side is facing you).
#y offset is from the center of the case. 


===Mechanical Assembly Instructions===
Remove flashing and push.

== Costs ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Item
! Quantity
! Approximate Cost
|-
| Plastic
| ~150 grams per section on average
| $3.33
|}

=== Current Issues ===

#Rendering time is excessive!
#Tab dimensions don't always match on the bottom of the mid section and top
#Clips don't always fit together perfectly

===Possible Solutions===
#Simply model & lower resolution
#Fix tab code
#Increase tolerances on clips

<!-- Don't change the next line unless you intend to change the categorization -->
<!-- Do add additional, appropriate categories.  See http://www.appropedia.org/Appropedia:CategoryTree for ideas. -->
[[Category:Projects]]