The MultiMachine, a humanitarian open source machine tool project for
developing countries

The MultiMachine all-purpose machine tool that can be built by a
semi-skilled mechanic with just common hand tools. For machine
construction, electricity can be replaced with "elbow grease" and the
necessary material can come from discarded vehicle parts.

What can the MultiMachine be used for in developing countries?

AGRICULTURE: Building and repairing irrigation pumps and farm implements

WATER SUPPLIES: Making and repairing water pumps and water-well
drilling rigs.

FOOD SUPPLIES: Building steel-rolling- and-bending machines for making
fuel efficient cook stoves and other cooking equipment

TRANSPORTATION: Anything from making cart axles to rebuilding vehicle
clutch, brake, and other parts.

EDUCATION: Building simple pipe-and-bar- bending machines to make
school furniture, providing "hands on" training on student-built
MultiMachines that they take with them when they leave school.

JOB CREATION: A group of specialized but easily built MultiMachines
can be combined to form a small, very low cost, metal working factory
which could also serve as a trade school. Students could be taught a
single skill on a specialized machine and be paid as a worker while
learning other skills that they could take elsewhere.

How can an easily built machine tool that is made from junk be "all
purpose" and also accurate?

Pretty simple!
In almost every kind of machining operation, either the work piece or
the cutting tool turns. If enough flexibility is built into the parts
of a machine tool involved in these functions, the resulting machine
can do almost every kind of machining operation that will physically
fit on it. You may have heard of 3-in-1 machine tools -- basically a
combination of metal lathe, mill and drill press. The MultiMachine
starts there but adds many other functions. It can be a 10- in-1 (or
even more!) machine tool that is built by using vehicle engine blocks
in a LEGO-like fashion. The MultiMachine uses 6 unusual construction
techniques to build 5 very simple "modules" that bolt to a workout or
broken vehicle or industrial engine block.
Using engine blocks as building blocks is the first MultiMachine
feature. Since cylinder bores are bored parallel to each other and at
exact right angles to the cylinder head surface, MultiMachine accuracy
begins at the factory where the engine block was built.
The second MultiMachine featture is that in the most common version of
the MultiMachine, one that has a roller bearing spindle, this
precision is maintained during construction with simple cylinder
re-boring of the #3 cylinder to the size of the roller bearing outside
diameter (OD) and re-boring the #1 cylinder to fit the overarm OD. The
best part is that these cylinder-boring operations can be done in
almost any engine shop and at low cost. An engine machine shop
provides the most inexpensive and accurate machine work commonly done
anywhere and guarantees that the spindle and overarm will be perfectly
aligned and at an exact right angle to the face (head surface) of the
main engine block that serves as the base of the machine.
The third MultiMachine feature is the spindle can be as simple as a
piece of pipe made to fit the inner diameter of the bearings.
The fourth feature is the addition of a third bearing to the spindle.
The three-bearing spindle is necessary because the "main" spindle
bearings just "float" in the cylinder bore so that the third bearing
is needed to "locate" the spindle, act as a thrust bearing, and
support the heavy pulley.
The fifth MultiMachine feature is our unique way of clamping the
engine blocks together. It's easily built, easily adjusted, and very
accurate.
The sixth feature is a concrete and steel construction technique that
we resurrected from old Popular Mechanics magazines. It has been used
in industry for well over a hundred years
An almost no cost version of the machine can be built by using engine
blocks originally made with cylinder "sleeves" and then replacing
bearings, adjusters and pulleys with parts cast from a very strong
zinc/aluminum alloy that can be made from vehicle salvage.

The details of the MultiMachine are available at the website address
included below. Additionally, there are plans for electric welders
built from vehicle alternators, a design for an easily built
hand-powered drill that is capable of cutting through the hardest
steel and an easily cast metal alloy that is almost as strong as cast
iron.

People wanting to download the plans etc. will have to at least
temporarily "join" the Yahoo newsgroup, a task that will only take
seconds. We regret that this is necessary but it is the only way for
us to handle the already huge number of downloads of the 80 page "How
to Build a MultiMachine" book.

Feel free to contact me directly for more information or visit our
group site here:

http://groups.yahoo.com/group/multimachine/

Pat Delany
Palestine, Texas
rigmatch@yahoo. com
{{catneeded}}