{{stub}}
A '''nanoparticle''' which historically has included [[nanopowder]], [[nanocluster]], and [[nanocrystal]] is a small particle with at least one dimension less than 100 nm.

==[[Sustainable Development]] Uses==

Nanoparticles can be used to:
* Improve [[solar cell]] efficiency
* [[Cleaning groundwater with nanoparticles| Clean ground water]]
* [[Nanoparticles for cancer detection and destruction| Detect and destroy cancer]]

==Nanoparticles and the Environment==
Nanoparticles present possible dangers, both medically and environmentally.<ref>Anisa Mnyusiwalla, Abdallah S Daar and Peter A Singer  2003 Nanotechnology 14 R9-R13   doi:10.1088/0957-4484/14/3/201</ref>  Most of these are due to the high surface to volume ratio, which can make the particles very reactive or [[catalytic]].<ref>Ying, Jackie. Nanostructured Materials. New York: Academic Press, 2001.</ref>  They are also able to pass through [[cell membrane]]s in organisms, and their interactions with biological systems are relatively unknown.<ref>[http://ec.europa.eu/health/opinions2/en/nanotechnologies/l-2/6-health-effects-nanoparticles.htm Nanotechnologies: 6. What are potential harmful effects of nanoparticles?<!-- Bot generated title -->]</ref>  However, free nanoparticles in the environment quickly tend to [[wikt:agglomerate|agglomerate]] and thus leave the nano-regime, and nature itself presents many nanoparticles to which organisms on earth may have evolved immunity (such as [[sea salt|salt]] particulates from [[ocean]] [[aerosol]]s, [[terpene]]s from plants, or dust from [[volcano|volcanic]] eruptions).  A fuller analysis is provided in the article on [[nanotechnology]].

According to the ''San Francisco Chronicle'', "Animal studies have shown that some nanoparticles can penetrate cells and tissues, move through the body and brain and cause biochemical damage. But whether cosmetics and sunscreens containing [[nanomaterials]] pose [[health risks]] remains largely unknown, pending completion of long-range studies recently begun by the [[FDA]] and other agencies."<ref>Keay Davidson, FDA urged to limit nanoparticle use in cosmetics and sunscreens|publisher,San Francisco Chronicle, [http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/c/a/2006/05/17/MNGFHIT1161.DTL|accessdate=2007-04-20]</ref>

[[Diesel]] nanoparticles have been found to damage the cardiovascular system in a mouse model.<ref> http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=washingtonstory&sid=aBt.yLf.YfOo study Pollution Particles Lead to Higher Heart Attack Risk (Update1)</ref>

== See also ==
* [[Nanotoxicology]]

=References=
<references/>
== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:Nanoparticles]]

[[Category:Nanotechnology]]