==Problem==
Exposure to airborne irritants and allergens leading to allergic rhinitis (hayfever) can be relieved with a nasal rinse of saline solution. Availability and cost of commercially prepared saline solutions may limit accessibilty to treatment.

==Summary==
A homemade recipe of boiled water, salt, and baking soda is made for irrigation of the nasal mucous membranes.

==Instructions==

''(Also available by [[Media:Nasal Saline Rinse Instructions.doc|download]] as a patient handout.)''

Nasal saline (salt water) rinses can help allergies and sinus infections by:
:Thinning secretions
:Removing pollen, dust and other allergens from your nose
:Removing secretions to make surfaces in your nose available for nasal steroid sprays

To make your own saline rinse, mix together in a clean container:
:¼ teaspoon salt, 
:1 cup warm water
:1 pinch baking soda

Remember:
:If possible, use a non-iodized salt such as sea salt
:If needed, adjust the amount of salt so that it tastes as salty as tears
:Make a new batch every 24 hours
:Use the saline rinse at least 15 minutes before using nasal steroid sprays
:Use a clean dropper bottle to put drops in nose
:You can also clean your hands, pour a small amount into your palm and snort the solution into your nose

==Interwiki links==
* [[Wikipedia:Nasal irrigation]] - general information about a method of flooding the nasal cavity with saline.
* [[Wikipedia:Jala neti]] - a traditional Indian (yoga) method of nasal irrigation.

==References==
Ferguson BJ. [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&db=pubmed&dopt=Abstract&list_uids=9158611 Allergic rhinitis. Options for pharmacotherapy and immunotherapy.]
Postgrad Med. 1997 May;101(5):117-20, 123-6, 131.
 
Rabone SJ, Saraswati SB. [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&db=pubmed&dopt=Abstract&list_uids=10628043 Acceptance and effects of nasal lavage in volunteer woodworkers.]Occup Med (Lond). 1999 Aug;49(6):365-9.

[http://www.fpnotebook.com/ENT166.htm Family Practice Notebook ENT166]

[[Category:Health and safety]]
[[Category:How tos]]
[[Category:Medical care]]