== This has been superceeded by The Code for Sustainable Homes in the UK ==
 
The Code for Sustainable Homes was launched in England in April 2007. All new housing promoted or supported by the Welsh Assembly Government will require a minimum of Code Level 3 from 1st May 2008. Code Level 3 is required for all new self-contained social housing in Northern Ireland from 2nd June 2008. The Code does not apply in Scotland.


== What is the Code for Sustainable Homes? ==


The Code for Sustainable Homes (CSH) is a national standard, owned by the Government. It is an environmental assessment method for certifying and rating the performance of new homes based on BRE Global's EcoHomes scheme. It has been developed to promote continuous improvement in the construction of sustainable homes.
 

== What does it cover? ==

The CSH covers sustainable design within 9 categories: ((M) sections are mandatory)
Energy and CO2 emissions (M),

Water (M),

Materials (M),

Surface Water Run-off (M),

Waste (M),

Health and Wellbeing (M),

Management,

Pollution,

Ecology

The non-mandatory categories of Management, Pollution and Ecology performance requirements are flexible. Buildings can achieve an overall level of between zero and six depending on the level of mandatory and flexible standards achieved.
 
== How is the assessment carried out? ==

Assessments are carried out in two stages:

1.Design Stage - A primary assessment is carried out at the design stage, based on detailed design criteria and commitments. This enables an interim certificate of compliance.

2.Post Build Stage - The final assessment and certification is carried out at the post build stage. Based on the design stage certificate, this includes a confirmation of compliance. It includes site records and visual site inspection, resulting in a final certificate of compliance.
 
== Who requires a CSH? ==

All new housing funded by the Homes and Communities Agency (HCA) must meet CSH level 3.

All new housing promoted or supported by the Welsh Assembly Government or their sponsored bodies must meet CSH level 3.

All new self-contained social housing in Northern Ireland must meet CSH level 3.
 
CSH standards are also insisted upon by some Local Authorites as a condition of Planning Permission Approval.