{{Lang|[[ubunifu wa asili|Kiswahili]] - [[Natural Innovation|English]]}}

<big>Natural Innovation Foundation

</big>

''supporting high impact clean-tech innovations''

==Why==

[http://www.naturalinnovation.org/ Natural Innovation] was started in 2003 by [[User:Mitraardron|Mitra Ardron]] to support the development of [[clean technologies]], and has had substantial successes in the fields of [[materials from waste]]; [[urban agriculture]] and [[solar photovoltaics]].

At the end of 2009 we realised that many great ideas that could seriously impact [[emissions]], and [[poverty]] were being lost because of financing challenges. We felt there were other ways to raise support for an idea that complement the traditional venture capital pathway, especially when the inventors are motivated more by giving something to the world than by making money.

Often people come to us when they've had the idea and spent a fair amount of time, and often money, on trying to develop their idea in various ways. At this point most innovations would raise venture capital, however this can be hard if the idea can't be patented (for example because its been published), or if the people who would purchase the invention are poor, or just because the inventors are located a long way from venture capitalists.

==What==

We bring together [http://www.naturalinnovation.org/index.php/getinvolved/innovatorsinvolvement innovators], [http://www.naturalinnovation.org/index.php/getinvolved/technicalinvolved engineers] & other volunteers, [http://www.naturalinnovation.org/index.php/getinvolved/foundationinvolvement philanthropists & foundations], lenders such as micro-credit institutions, development and aid organisations.  We help innovators connect with the resources they need to ensure that their innovation is completed and then reaches the people who need it. We'll help take the risk out of the innovation - to put a prototype together for example, or to test the market, so that cheaper sources of finance, or more risk-averse strategic partners (like aid organisations) can help with distribution.

==Innovators==

''Natural Innovation Foundatio''n works with innovators who have great ideas that have a potential to scale to have a significant impact on poverty or the environment. Most of the innovations we work with are focused on [[developing countries]], and many of the innovators are based there.

We work with these innovators to help them bring the idea to realisation, by de-risking (for example creating a prototype, or testing a market) and then scaling.

We link innovators with resources - including grants; volunteers (especially technical); debt and strategic partners.


== Talk page ==

At the suggestion of [[User:Kili]] I've started a [[Talk:Natural Innovation|talk page]].

== External links ==

* [http://www.naturalinnovation.org/ Official website]

[[Category:Australian organisations]]
[[Category:International organizations]]