{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Neonatalie.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Newborn infants often require resuscitation and suction to clear blockages in the respiratory tract. Current tools are expensive and require training.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The NeoNatalie Suction device is shaped like a penguin. Its beak provides easy access to the nose and mouth. It consists of a single piece of silicone that can be boiled, autoclaved, and reused hundreds of times.

==Designed by==
*Designed and distributed by: Laerdal Global Health
*The device can be purchased online through their official [http://www.laerdalglobalhealth.com/neonatalie.html website].

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
The device has been implemented in numerous countries around the world in Africa, Asia and South America. A complete list can be found [http://www.countdown2015mnch.org/reports-publications/2010-country-profiles here].

==Funding Source==
Laerdal is supported through private funds and they are making the product available on a not-for-profit basis through 2015.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Crofts, J. F., Winter, C., & Sowter, M. C. (2011). Practical simulation training for maternity care--where we are and where next. BJOG : An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, 118 Suppl 3, 11-16.

===Other internally generated reports===
Laerdal. (2010.) NeoNatalie: Realistic and affordable training and therapy. PDF available [http://www.helpingbabiesbreathe.org/docs/Laerdal%20NeoNatalie%20Price%20List.pdf here].

===Externally generated reports===
Maternova. (2011). Neonatalie Suction. Link available [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/neonatalie-suction here].