{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Neonurture.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Preterm birth is a major contributor to neonatal deaths and low birth weight babies are at high risk. These babies are also susceptible because they are unable to effectively maintain their body temperature to stay warm. Incubators are needed to keep the babies at a warm temperature until they can effectively maintain their own body temperatures. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
NeoNurture is based on using recycled car parts in order to build a low-cost incubator. It uses sealed-beam headlights as a heating element, a dashboard fan for convective heat circulation, signal lights and a door chime serve as alarms, and a motorcycle battery and car cigarette lighter provide backup power during incubator transport and power outages.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Design that Matters (DtM).  Website available [http://designthatmatters.org/ here].

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
This device is in its clinical trial phase in Bangladesh, Nepal and India.

==Funding Sources==
This project receives numerous funding support from the following entities: (Full listing available [http://designthatmatters.org/about/sponsors/ here].)
*Alliance for Global Sustainability
*Ashoka Foundation
*Bridgeway Charitable Foundation
*Choate Hall & Steward LLP
*DLA Piper
*Draper Richards Foundation
*IDEO
*MIT IDEAS Competition
*MIT Laboratory for Energy and the Environment
*MIT Media Lab
*MIT Public Service Center
*Museum of Science
*SolidWorks Corporation
*The Lynch Foundation
*Thanksgiving Fund
*USAID

==References==
===Externally generated reports===
Park, A. (2010, November). The 50 Best Inventions of 2010. Time.  Link available [http://www.time.com/time/specials/packages/article/0,28804,2029497_2030618_2029499,00.html here].

Schultz, J. (2010, November 23). A baby incubator made from car parts. New York Times. Link available [http://wheels.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/11/23/neonurtures-car-parts-baby-incubator here].

Winner of the 2010 People's Design Award. Link available [http://designthatmatters.org/portfolio/projects/incubator/ here].