{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Neosyp.png
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Hospitals in low-resource settings are often ill-equipped to address improper fluid intake, a condition that presents fatal risks for newborns. NeoSyP is an inexpensive and simple automated neonatal syringe pump designed to safely and accurately deliver fluids to newborns.

==Detailed description of the solution==
A mass driver provides a constant driving force to a pendulum apparatus that oscillates with a constant frequency. This constant oscillation is then translated by a set of gears into a downward motion on the syringe. This setup allows for the controlled delivery of fluid. An aluminum housing protects the gear system and an acrylic housing protects the device and supports the syringe.

==Describe its relevance for resource-constrained settings==
NeoSyP was designed for developing countries to provide a cost-effective and easy-to-use alternative to the often improperly and inefficiently used intravenous therapies found there. This simple mechanical syringe driver is designed specifically for resource-constrained settings because it ensures the accurate and safe delivery of essential fluids to newborns without the use of electricity and is designed to function optimally even in harsh working conditions.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: a team of students from Rice University's Bioengineering and Mechanical Engineering Departments.
 
==Funding Source==
Beyond Traditional Borders funded this project through a grant from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute.

==References==
===Other internally generated reports===
Carstens, E., & Cui, Y., Kamath, R., & Ouyang, C., & Sung, C. (2011).  NeoSyP:  Neonatal Syringe Pump for the Developing World. Brochure.

Zikomo:  Neonatal Syringe Pump for the Developing World (2011). Rice George R. Brown School of Engineering.  Link available [http://oedk.wildapricot.org/Content/Members/MemberPublicProfile.aspx?pageId=1063096&memberId=4836246 here].

===Externally generated reports===
Goodier, R. (2011). A new syringe pump can save babies' lives in developing countries. Engineering for Change. Retrieved January 16, 2011. Link available [https://www.engineeringforchange.org/news/2011/06/22/a_new_syringe_pump_can_save_babies_lives_in_developing_countries.html here].

NeoSyp. (2011). Maternova. Retrieved January 16, 2011.  Link available [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/neosyp here].