{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Physical disabilities
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Niagara.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Conventional prosthetics are often poorly designed for use in the developing world where rugged roads and conditions can render prosthetics weak and easily breakable.   Amputees with frail prosthetic limbs cannot continue their active lifestyles to their fullest potential.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Niagara Foot combines flexibility, durability and comfort in a cost-effective design.  Its unique S-shaped heel is injection-molded from impacted-resistant Hytrel® 8238 thermoplastic polyester elastomer and acts like a spring to provide energy storage and return during the gait cycle, much like walking normally. It helps to decrease muscular strain as well. 

==Relevance to developing country settings==
Clinical trials were conducted in several locations around the globe, including San Salvador and Thailand. In Nigeria, the initial feedback was positive. 

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Dr. Tim Bryant, a Professor from the Department of Mechanical Engineering and the Human Mobility Research Centre at Queen’s University, Ontario, Canada
*Manufacturer: Niagara Prosthetics & Orthotics International Ltd in Ontario, Canada
 
==Funding Source==
This project receives private funding from Hippo Design (Montebello, Québec), Précicad (Québec City, Québec) and DuPont (USA).

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Andrysek J. Lower-limb prosthetic technologies in the developing world: A review of literature from 1994-2010. Prosthetics and Orthotics international 2010; 34(4):378-398. 

Bryant, T. and Beshai, M. (2003, April).  Victim Assistance Efforts: The Niagara Foot.  Journal of Mine Action, 7.1.  Link available [http://maic.jmu.edu/journal/7.1/notes/beshai/beshai.htm here].

===Other internally generated reports===
DuPont. (n.d.) Case Study- Prosthetic Foot Design. Link available [http://www2.dupont.com/Medical_Device_Material/en_US/applications/niagara_foot.html here].

Niagara Prosthetics & Orthotics.  (n.d.) Innovation.  Link available [http://www.niagarapo.ca/innovation.aspx here].

Queens University.  (n.d.) Did you know the Niagara Foot was developed by a Queen's researcher and is being perfected by his students? Link available [http://www.queensu.ca/giving/ways/annualgiving/10-11/landminevictims/niagarafoot.html here].

===Externally generated reports===
The O&P EDGE. (n.d.) Niagara Foot: Boon to Landmine Survivors. Link available [http://www.oandp.com/articles/2003-03_08.asp here].

===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===
The product has surpassed ISO 10328 standards for static and cyclic testing.