'''Night soil''' refers to untreated human waste used historically as [[fertilizer]]. It is known to cause [[Health risk with ecosan technologies|illness]], especially among those not accustomed to eating food grown in this way.

Human waste is an extremely rich source of [[soil nutrients]] and [[soil microorganisms]], and treating it as [[waste]] discards a valuable resource. (''See also'' [[No such thing as garbage]]) However it must be properly treated in most cases and applied according to safety guidelines. 

== Safety in reuse of human waste ==
It is an important principle in [[risk management]] to take several safety measures together, to minimize risk. For [[food safety]]: 

A much safer alternative is to apply mature '''[[humanure]]''' to an empty garden bed first, then apply layers of safer soil and mulch.

Strict care must be taken even with matured humane. A good strategy is to use thick [[mulch]], and only apply where the edible parts of the plant are well above the ground - [[fruit trees]] or [[vines]] on [[trellises]], for example.

== Exceptions to treatment requirements ==
Treatment and application requirements will be less strict where the soil will not be used for food crops for some years, and where there is little exposure to humans and human [[disease vectors]], e.g. in [[timber plantations]] which are fenced off and far from human settlements.  In such cases,  appropriate workplace safety measures are essential for workers, including protective clothing and masks, and washing facilities. 

==  See also ==
* [[Greywater reuse]] 

[[Category:Food production]]
[[Category:Food safety]]
[[Category:Fertilizers]]