'''NIMBY''' is short for "'''Not In My Back Yard'''." I.e. it is rejecting something being built nearby. It is a negative term implying that the reasons for the opposition are selfish and not in the [[community]] interest. 

It often relates to a form of development which needs to be built somewhere, but is perceived to affect property values or make life difficult in some way. Examples of such development could be [[medium density housing|medium]] and [[high density housing]] development, or a halfway house for mental ill people, or treatment center for drug addicts, [[wind turbines]], [[transport]] routes or nodes, or [[waste treatment]] facilities.

== NIMBY or not? ==

In cases where the opponent makes a case against the very existence of the development anywhere, it may be difficult to know whether it is a case of NIMBYism or genuine, principled opposition. The suggestion of viable alternatives is an essential part of genuine opposition, although their viability will become a matter of debate.

In any case, the opponent of the development clearly has concerns, and dismissing them as a NIMBY will not help to engage constructively. Active listening is important, seeking to express their concerns ("You feel that...") ''before'' addressing them and ''before'' expressing the concerns of the pro-development side, is important to seeking a genuine resolution. With effort on all sides. this process may result in a more satisfactory outcome for everyone.

{{stub}}

[[Category:Community]] 
[[Category:Urban development]] 
[[Category:Urban planning]]