Some [[food]] plants are well suited to [[agriculture]] while others are not - this is a theme explored in ''[[Guns, Germs, and Steel]]''{{w|Guns, Germs, and Steel}} by Jared Diamond. 

For example, only one Australian plant (the [[macadamia]]) has become a successful commercial crop. Other Australian plants can be used as [[bush tucker]] (harvested, prepared and eaten) but have not prove practical in commerce.

Many plants can provide high-quality food, but are not suited for storage or transport - so they either don't appear in shops, or appear rarely and for a high price. Growing these in a private or public garden allows the benefits to be enjoyed without worrying about transport or storage - eating them straight off the plant, or picking and using immediately.

Examples are grouped by plant type, below.

Annuals:
* [[Heirloom tomatoes]] (don't transport well, but can be delicious and interesting)

Bushes:
* [[Huckleberries]]

Trees:
* [[Mulberries]]

== Semi-wild ==

[[Australia Aboriginal]] peoples developed practices to increase the number of food plants, without actually practicing "agriculture." This included letting seeds drop in areas that they frequented (was this a deliberate practice?{{fact}}), and replacing the tops of wild yams in the soil, so they could regrow.

== Semi-commercial ==

Sometimes used commercially, but either expensive, or rare in fresh form due to handling challenges: 
* [[Raspberries]]
* [[Blackberries]] - acts as a difficult to control weed, so this is one delicious food you may choose not to grow! Classed as a noxious weed in Australia.{{fact}}

== In the garden ==

These plants can provide frequent healthy snacks, and can help introduce children to the joys of healthy natural foods.
 
== Becoming commercially viable ==

Some plants began in this category, but through selective breeding and new growing techniques{{expand}} became commercial - for example the [[blueberry]].{{fact}}

[[Category:Food and agriculture]]
[[Category:Gardening]]