{{JMC330inprogress|May 15, 2011}}

== North Korea and Food Shortage Background ==

North Korea is officially known as Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK). Its land area is 122,762 sq km2 and it has a population of over 24 million. North Korea’s capital city is named Pyongyang.
North Korea Workers’ Party is the unique party in the country. The country’s government follows the Juche Ideology of self-reliance. And the economy of North Korea is a socialist planned economy. 

The unique policy and economy methods, which made North Korea faces serious shortage of food for years. According to an article from New York Times "North Korean food shortages make combustible situation worse" in 2008 says, a famine killed more than one million people in 1990. [http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/03/world/asia/03iht-north.2.11648529.html]

== Mennonite Central Committee (MCC) ==

The purpose and vision of MCC is "a worldwide ministry of Anabaptist churches, shares God's love and compassion for all in the name of Christ by responding to basic human needs and working for peace and justice. MCC envisions communities worldwide in right relationship with God, one another and creation."[http://mcc.org/about/purpose]


== Sustainable Agriculture ==

Since 1995, MCC began to support DPRK with tens of thousands of tons of food to help people there to pass food shortage time. 

In July 2009, MCC launched a project named "conservation agriculture" to help farmers in North Korea produce more grain through environmental sustainable practices. The project plans on finished in December 2011. [http://mcc.org/stories/news/mcc-promotes-sustainable-farming-north-korea] 

"Conservation agriculture" purpose to increase organic matter and nutrients in the soil, boost yields and minimize expensive inputs such as fertilizer and fuel, according to the coordinator of the project named James Frey introduced.