NUBIAN’S OASIS GREYWATER RECYCLING ATTRACTS COMMERCIAL INTEREST FROM WATER SOLUTIONS ENGINEERS

'''[[Greywater recycling]]''' in apartment blocks, hotels, schools, townhouses and commercial buildings is now feasible using Nubian’s OASIS greywater recycling process in the system design. Engineers are seeking compact, above ground equipment that allows recycling of [[greywater]] for irrigation or internal reuse in toilets and laundries. Property investors, offering sustainable “[[Green Buildings]]” to environmentally responsible tenants, can install economic OASIS systems that save substantial amounts of drinking water – up to 60% of conventional usage patterns. Nubian has a portfolio of active projects in apartments, offices, hotels, schools and mine sites throughout [[Australia]]. ACT and QLD new regulations for commercial developments require alternative water sources be specified, and greywater recycling offers consistent and meaningful water savings.

Nubian launched its OASIS domestic greywater treatment system late in Dec 2006, and has a growing number of residential installations in VIC, NSW, ACT, and QLD, where the system’s high water quality has been accredited for reuse internally in laundries and toilets, and for above ground irrigation. In WA and SA recycled water can be used for above ground [[irrigation]]. Nubian is currently working with regulators and consultants to achieve system validation, under the National Water Recycling Guidelines to facilitate the use of the technology in commercial and multi dwelling projects.

Nubian’s OASIS technology is Australian with global patents pending.  It uses the well proven [[wastewater treatment]] processes of [[solids separation]], [[biological treatment]] and [[ultraviolet disinfection]].  The biological treatment step is the heart of the technology, and is an innovative form of aerated [[biofilter]], which provides very high rate processing and is very robust in its ability to deal with varying and shock loads, which are typical of residential greywater.  Treated water is of a high quality, with BOD and Suspended Solids levels typically less than 5 ppm.  The high UV dosage consistently delivers Faecal Coliform levels close to zero.  The system is fully automated, and is designed to require no user intervention between scheduled service calls.  On-line and remote monitoring devices can be added, and these can integrate with building automation systems

Greywater recycling offers consistent water availability to overcome drought and water restrictions. Architects can design sustainable buildings which can still offer residents lush gardens and water features, using water that would otherwise be destined for the sewer.  [[Greywater treatment]] systems that are above ground and discreet in size, are increasingly being requested for inclusion in “green buildings”.  In addition to the saving in mains water consumption, there is a reduced load on sewage systems with greywater treated and recycled rather than going to sewer.

The two system options are with the existing OASIS GT600 / Megalitre processors and a new larger 5000 Lpd unit.  Linking OASIS multiple processors in parallel on a skid mounted system, together with a common greywater collection and screening system provides an immediately available, scalable plant suitable for daily hydraulic loads of up to 15,000 litres per day.  Risk management can be enhanced with optional ultra filtration, chlorination, and real time monitoring. Recycled water can be stored with rainwater in common tanks if overflows are managed to ensure excess rainwater goes to stormwater, and excess recycled water goes to sewer. 

Nubian is currently developing a larger biological treatment module to treat 5,000 litres per day each.  A group of these in a common system would occupy a single parking space in a car park or be housed in a 20 foot container. It would be capable of treating up to 40,000 Lpd.
 
Property developers will use clusters of these systems in large estates, processing greywater and irrigating common land, gardens and even reticulating into groups of houses.  Recycling treated water back into residences can reduce drinking water by more than 40% and sewer discharge by 60%

OASIS greywater processors are attracting attention from the commercial sector because of the simplicity of integrating into engineered sustainable architectural designs. The systems are very space efficient. It makes achieving environmentally responsible buildings a lot easier.

For more information, contact Nubian Water Systems (Pty) Ltd at +61 2 9438-5522 or go to www.nubian.com.au 	. P O Box 425, Artarmon, NSW 1570

[[Category:Greywater]]