{{MOST}}


==OpenSCAD - The Programmers Solid 3D CAD Modeller==

[[OpenSCAD]] [http://www.openscad.org/ OpenSCAD official website] is a software for creating solid 3D CAD objects. It is [[free software]] and available for [[Linux]]/UNIX, MS Windows and Mac OS X.

OpenSCAD provides two main modelling techniques: First there is constructive solid geometry (aka CSG) and second there is extrusion of 2D outlines. As data exchange format format for this 2D outlines Autocad DXF files are used. In addition to 2D paths for extrusion it is also possible to read design parameters from DXF files. Besides DXF files OpenSCAD can read and create 3D models in the STL (for 3-D printing) and OFF file formats.

OpenSCAD is most useful for designing parametric [[OSAT]] that can be 3-D printed. For example see:[[Open source 3-D printing of OSAT]]

Free download: http://www.openscad.org/

OpenSCAD is great - but is best suited for programmers - and as such is a little difficult for non-programmers to learn - particularly young children who are not fast typers. To make OpenSCAD more accessible there are currently two solutions:

# UltiCreator: http://ultishaper.youmagine.com/app UltiCreator uses CoffeeSCad, which is a browser based 3D solid CAD editor. It is [[OpenSCAD]] style, with a Coffeescript based syntax, and extra features (object oriented, clean interface, code editor with line number, syntax highlighting etc, bom generation...). Relatively easy to use - you can see  your object oriented additions in real time in your browser and can save your code and export stls form 3D printing on your favorite open-source 3D printer.
# Snapscad:  https://github.com/martymcguire/snapscad To overcome the programming gap Snapscad is a MIT's Scratch -like interface for OpenSCAD. [http://scratch.mit.edu/ Scratch] is a great tool for teaching children to learn to program using drag-and-drop snappable elements to produce real programs. SnapSCAD, a simple JavaScript app that allows you to build up OpenSCAD scripts via drag-and-drop snappable elements. SnapSCAD is pure Javascript. Simply git clone the project and open index.html in your browser! It is easy to use - but you are not yet able to visualize your objects on the fly - must copy scad code over to OpenSCAD.

[[category:MOST methods]]
[[category:CAD]]
[[category:software]]
[[category:prototyping]]
[[category:open source]]