{{777}}{{TRIZ-3D}}[[category:4777 TRIZ 3D printers]]


[[User:Tmjohnst|Tmjohnst]] ([[User talk:Tmjohnst|talk]]) 07:18, 1 December 2015 (PST)

[[User:Kev Man|Kev Man]] ([[User talk:Kev Man|talk]]) 07:49, 1 December 2015 (PST)

== Nesting to Improve 3D Printing ==
# Print using filament directly from filament extruder.
# Gear reduction to do finer resolution parts.
## Introduces slack but can be limited with ball screws.
# Extruder hidden within the frame.
# Heated bed hidden within the frame.
## Half the printed bed captures the heat pad, and the top half conceals it.
## Reduces possible damage to the print bed; the printed surface can be printed again.
## Probably needs some sort of metal printed and ground surface for accuracy.
# Delta rods shorten and lengthen to change movement speed for accuracy.
## Telescoping rods with servos controlling them with a rod threaded through the center.
# '''Frame uses extendable vertical columns.'''
# Belts use straps that can easily extend the belt's usable length.
# Hide belt within frame to reduce exterior moving parts.
# (Obvious) Use traps on ALL bolts to improve looks (countersinking).
# '''Use sheathed bowden sheath with an interlock so that the sheath can be extended at will (for use with extending rods).'''
## Adds to expandability.
# Use a filament extruder directly in place of the extruder head - directly print with recycled stuff.
# '''Use a combined stepper driver and computer (Omit Melzi somehow).'''
## This is probably critical for continuing the development of our specific printer.
# Add lights inside the end effector during print to conceal lighting (aesthetic).
# ''' Use extendable parts on the entire frame (like a step ladder or something).'''
## This is the basis for modular printers, so not anything new really.
# Have a segmented bed that can expand with inserts (like a table leaf).
# Use thicker vertical rods to omit exterior frame without introducing vibrations.
# Use frame as part of wireways. Just add a vertical slot in the frame for the wires to be pushed into.
## Decreases the risk of snagging and ripping out wires.
## Makes the machine more portable.
# Make the vertical parts of the frame interlock with the horizontal to improve ease of assembly.
# Use snap-together locks in place of bolts to make the frame hold itself together (can't be done with wood probably).
# Mount extruder on end effector (increase weight and momentum but decrease jams/clogs).
# Add filter to extruder to filter and extrude in the same motion.
## Add a slot to push a chunk of foam into that the filament pierces through. This can easily be replaced and adds very little plastic to the overall build.
## Builds exist for this but it can be incorporated into the extruder assembly to reduce size.
# Add vibration segments in the rods to reduce momentum vibration.
# '''Add 3D-printed U-joints to the end effector and omit purchase parts.'''
## Purchase U-joints are expensive but are more precise, so some precision is lost.
# Add cooling head next to hot end to simultaneously cool and extrude to decrease deflection.
# Add wi-fi capability to the board to make machine wirelessly accessible.
# Combine frame with beams to decrease segmentation.