{{TRIZ-3D}}{{777}} [[category:4777 TRIZ 3D printers]]
[[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] 

1. Use the underside of a hemisphere for the hot end to travel on. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:33, 1 December 2015 (PST)

2. Use a concave hemisphere of any size as a print bed to create curved undersides with no support. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:33, 1 December 2015 (PST)

3. Use a convex hemisphere of any size as a print bed to create curved undersides with no support. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:33, 1 December 2015 (PST)

4. Use ball-in-socket rollers for the movement of each axis. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:33, 1 December 2015 (PST)

5. Use a rotating print bed to allow for smoother curved lines. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:33, 1 December 2015 (PST)

6. If print head is traveling on the inside of a hemisphere, print could be done in shells as opposed to layers, could allow for superior surface finish. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:33, 1 December 2015 (PST)

7. Mount entire printer in a centrifuge to help with bottom layer adhesion and part stability. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:50, 1 December 2015 (PST)

8. Use dynamically adjustable connecting rods to change the angle of the print head, allowing to print by shells instead of horizontal layers.  [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:50, 1 December 2015 (PST)

9. Use a bowden cable lined with micro rollers to reduce friction. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:50, 1 December 2015 (PST)

10. Use ball bearings that are pushed into gears on the axis to eliminate linear bearings. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:50, 1 December 2015 (PST)

11. Use a hot end mounted on a controlled vehicle to print giant spheres, planet sized. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:50, 1 December 2015 (PST)

12. Use PLA in small spheres that are then melted and screw extruded for printing. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:50, 1 December 2015 (PST)

13. Using a ball point pen style tip to draw/paint a brim layer. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 06:44, 3 December 2015 (PST)

14. Have the hot end travel on a circular track that moves on vertical axis to allow for printing in shells. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 06:44, 3 December 2015 (PST)

15. Mount a hot end with the extrusion end pointing upwards, use supporting rollers that are driven around the hot end to print a sphere. Would likely require a 'starter sphere' to build off of. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:02, 3 December 2015 (PST)

16. Mount multiple hot ends radial around an axis, rotate to during printing to allow for multiple material or color printing. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:02, 3 December 2015 (PST)

17. Give very slight concavity to the print bed to discourage warping. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:02, 3 December 2015 (PST)

18. Give very slight convexity to the print bed to discourage warping. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:02, 3 December 2015 (PST)

19. Mount hot end horizontal and rotate at a high speed to print with the assistance of centrifugal force. Would require a cylindrical print bed. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:02, 3 December 2015 (PST)

20. Mount a series of extruder drive gears in a circle to get better grip on filament and reduce filament crushing. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:08, 3 December 2015 (PST)

21. Put print bed on rollers to allow for a movement of print bed to do multiple prints. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:08, 3 December 2015 (PST)

22. Use the inside of a large cylinder for the z axis, have a cross piece that rotates on the inside for x and y directions. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:08, 3 December 2015 (PST) 

23. Use a hemisphere for the top of the printer for greater stability, protection, and filament spool mounting. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:09, 3 December 2015 (PST)

24. Put printer in a spherical housing to protect the printer from small children and vice versa. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:14, 3 December 2015 (PST)

25. Put a ball check valve in the hot end to have fine control of extrusion. [[User:Cjkmiec|Cjkmiec]] ([[User talk:Cjkmiec|talk]]) 07:14, 3 December 2015 (PST)