[[Off-the-grid]], [[self-sufficient]], [[raw foodism|raw]] [[vegan]] [[community]] on Big Island [[Hawaii]]. 

I am planning to build an off-the-grid, self-sufficient, raw vegan community at Royal Gardens, on Big Island Hawaii.

Royal Gardens was a “housing development” in process’ (roads cut through the jungle, water pipes laid) when lava came down the hill and skirted a little hillock and surrounded it, leaving a little patch of uncleared trees. Since there was suddenly no access road, the land value plummeted to ~$500/acre, while the lava field on the "flats” nearer the ocean sells for $40,000/acre.

[[Ferrocement]] construction, [[bamboo construction]], [[solar heat]] and [[solar electricity|electricity]], [[hydroponic]] food production, zillions of [[fruit trees]], [[raised-bed]] [[compost]]ed [[gardens]], satellite Internet, peaceful/spiritual people, …

Minor issue: “vog”: volcanic smog. I plan to design “voggles”; goggles flushed with clean air to eliminate eye irritation when necessary, and perhaps a full rebreather for intense vog.

I plan to buy as much acreage as possible to establish said community.

[http://www.google.com/search?ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8&sourceid=navclient&gfns=1&q=%22royal+gardens%22+hawaii Web search for ''"royal gardens" hawaii'']

Laurie

-- 
Scientifically-credible info on plant-based human diets:
http://ecologos.org/ttdd.html
news:alt.food.vegan.science 

==========
DEC 21. 2011

	THIS PROJECT HAS BEEN POSTPONED DUE TO OVERWHELMING LACK OF INTEREST.  

	See the note on the {{talk page}}.

==========


[[Category:Ecovillages]]
[[Category:Intentional communities]]
[[Category:Projects]]
[[Category:Off-the-grid]]