'''Offgassing''' or '''outgassing''' is the release of a [[gas]] that was dissolved, trapped, [[freezing|frozen]] or [[Absorption|absorbed]] in some material.<ref>{{cite book | first=John | last=Strong |  date=1938 | title=[[Procedures in Experimental Physics]] | publisher=Lindsay Publications | location=Bradley, IL | id= }}, Chapter 3</ref> Offgassing can include [[phase transition]]s of a substance into a gas ([[sublimation]] and [[evaporation]]), as well as [[desorption]], seepage from cracks or internal volumes and gaseous products of slow [[chemical reaction]]s. [[Boiling]] is generally thought of as a separate phenomenon from offgassing because it consists of a phase transition of a liquid into a vapor made of the same substance.

== Material reuse ==

Potential offgassing should be taken into consideration when [[repurposing]] or [[upcycling]] materials. Gases released from [[wood pallets]], tires used in [[earthship]] construction<ref>http://www.greenbuildingadvisor.com/blogs/dept/musings/earthship-hype-and-earthship-reality</ref>, or other materials may cause health issues.

== In a closed environment ==

Offgassing can be significant if it collects in a closed environment where air is stagnant or recirculated.  For example, "new car smell" consists of offgassed chemicals released by heat in a closed automobile. Even a nearly odourless material such as wood may build up a strong smell if kept in a closed box for months. There is some concern that [[plasticizer]]s and [[solvent]]s released from many industrial products, especially plastics, may be harmful to human health.<ref name="Health Concerns">{{cite web|title=Health Concerns|url=http://www.epa.gov/dfe/pubs/projects/spf/health_concerns_associated_with_chemicals_in_spray_polyurethane_foam_products.html|publisher=United States Environmental Protection Agency|accessdate=10 June 2013}}</ref>  Some types of [[Vulcanization|RTV]] sealants offgas the poison [[cyanide]] for weeks after application.{{fact}} Offgassing toxic gases are of particular concern in the design of submarines and space stations, which must have self-contained recirculated atmospheres.

== In construction ==

The offgassing of small pockets of air near the surface of setting [[concrete]] can lead to permanent holes in the structure (called "bugholes") that may compromise its structural integrity.<ref name=crb>{{citation |url=https://www.icri.org/PUBLICATIONS/2008/PDFs/janfeb08/CRBJanFeb08_ODea.pdf |title=Thin-Patch Repair of Concrete in Wastewater Environments Using Commercially Available Cementitious Resurfacers |publisher=Concrete Repair Bulletin |date=January 2008 |accessdate=2014-10-21}}</ref><ref name=preventing>{{citation |url=http://www.macoatings.com/site/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/Maintenance_Tips_Preventing_Air-Induced_Coating_Failures_on_Concrete.pdf |title=Preventing Air-Induced Coating Failures on Concrete |publisher=JPCL |date=January 2007 |accessdate=2014-10-21}}</ref>

== From rock ==

At the Earth's [[Divergent boundary|tectonic divergent boundaries]] where new crust is being created, [[helium]] and [[carbon dioxide]] are some of the volatiles being offgassed from mantle magma.

== See also ==
* [[Volatile organic compound]]

== References ==
{{reflist}}

[[Category:Chemistry]]
[[Category:Construction]]
[[Category:Health and safety]]
[[Category:Material reuse]]

{{attrib wikipedia|Outgassing}}