An '''online community''' (or '''virtual community''') is connected through email, a forum, a wiki or a social networking platform. Many are for entertainment only, while others are focused on [[sustainability]], tackling [[poverty]], [[appropriate technology]], or [[design]].

Communities on such subjects are [[communities of purpose]] - however, building and managing such communities require understanding human needs and desires. The members may be more driven, passionate and/or altruistic than those on a hobby forum, but they will still be drawn back to a place where they experience connection and fun. 

== See also ==

* [[Wiki community development]]
* [[Green Knowledge Trust]]


== Interwiki links ==

* [http://www.appropedia.org/Wiki_community_development Wiki community development], on Appropedia.org.
* [http://cotw.cc/wiki/Wiki_ecosystem Wiki ecosystem] - ''Coalition of the Willing'' wiki
* [http://cotw.cc/wiki/Green_knowledge_ecosystem Green knowledge ecosystem] - ''Coalition of the Willing'' wiki

== External links ==

=== Online communities ===
* [http://www.how-matters.org/2010/09/09/international-development-online-communities/ Online Communities for International Do-Gooders], a compiled (and growing) list of online communities related to international development and assistance from [http://www.how-matters.org/ how-matters.org]

=== Resources for community building and managing ===

Here is some suggested reading. Please share key points that are relevant to Appropedia, on [[Talk:Wiki community development]] or the [[A:VP|site discussion page]] or [http://groups.google.com/group/appropedia-community/ community discussion list], particularly if it has inspired you to take action in a particular way. 
* [http://www.artofcommunityonline.org/2009/09/18/the-art-of-community-now-available-for-free-download/ Art of Community] by Jono Bacon, Ubuntu community manager. (You can download the pdf.)
* [http://www.feverbee.com/ FeverBee], blog by Richard Millington, "an online community builder currently working for the United Nations Refugee Agency... the founder of [http://commania.ning.com/ Commania], a community for community professionals and the author of the [http://richchallenge.typepad.com/files/communitybuildingmanifesto-1.pdf Online Community Manifesto].
* [http://pillarsummit.com/the-proven-path/theprovenpath.pdf The Proven Path] - a clear introduction to community building that works, from Richard Millington.
* [http://www.theopensourceway.org/book/ The Open Source Way] - about online community, and being written by an online community. As at 22 Feb 2010, "The strongest sections are [https://www.theopensourceway.org/wiki/Communities_of_practice Communities of practice], [https://www.theopensourceway.org/wiki/How_to_loosely_organize_a_community How to loosely organize a community], and [https://www.theopensourceway.org/wiki/Stuff_everyone_knows_and_forgets_anyway Stuff everyone knows and forgets anyway]", according to the project leader.[http://opensource.com/business/10/2/how-manual-open-source-way-written-open-source-way?sms_ss=identica]
* [http://www.admittingfailure.com/2011/01/1sky-lessons-learned-in-building-a-custom-community-platform/ Lessons Learned in Building a Custom Community Platform] - the pitfalls of developing online community spaces, looking at "The Climate Network" and why it failed.
* [http://www.collaborativenation.com/community-managers.html Community Managers] - interviews with ''Collaborative Nation'' (a website for "Techno-Activist Communities")

'''Wiki-specific resources''':
* [http://www.wikipatterns.com/ Wiki Patterns] - growth and community in wikis. (Appears broken, but [http://web.archive.org/web/20130628101610/http://www.wikipatterns.com/display/wikipatterns/Wikipatterns available at Archive.org].)
* [http://www.communitywiki.org/ CommunityWiki] (less focused, more open)
* [[meta:Wikicommunity]] - proposal for community-building within Wikimedia through activities not focused directly on content creation. Contains links to relevant pages and discussions on English Wikipedia. 

==== Deeper study ====

If you've read all the above - the books, the blog archives - you have plenty of knowledge to manage an online community. But if you still want to dig deeper, a few topics that might be useful to study are listed below - start at the Wikipedia articles, learn, and check the resources listed there. (This is an initial guess at useful topics - as you research, please improve the list):
* [[Wikipedia:Virtual community]]
* [[Wikipedia:Social capital]]

Research and academic resources:
* [https://facultystaff.richmond.edu/~dforsyth/gd/ Group Dynamics Resource Page] - Donelson R. Forsyth, Jepson School of Leadership Studies, University of Richmond.


[[Category:Online communities]]
[[Category:Community]]
[[Category:Internet]]