
'''Episode Breakdown study'''



=- Project Introduction=

Introduction to the project, project theory, the owner/builder, project staff, build site and outline of the build with previews of later episodes and side-trips. 

=- Scoping The Design Program - Imagining Open Source Living=

Detailed discussion of the home design program, the collection of design choices, and the process of choosing a specific design and build strategy. Explores the theory of 'unplugging' and the vision of an open source and Post-Industrial lifestyle. Possible interviews with WikiHouse developers and Vinay Gupta, Marcin Jakubowski, Sam Muirhead, others in the resilience and subsistence tech movement. 

=- Planning Home Workshop=

Overview of Home Workshop program and introduction to its family of digital machine tools and their working principles. Visits to fab labs and Makerspaces.

=- Planning the Microfarm=

Overview of the Microfarm program, its systems, and principles. Exploration of vertical/urban farming and visits to various examples. 

=- Transportation - Overview and Planning=

Overview of alternative transportation options. Introduction to the Electroscooter, Wooden Workbikes and OScar designs. Visits to Amish scooter makers, centers of work bike culture, and microcar museums. Story of Velorex microcar.

=- Robots and Smart Home - Overview and Planning=

Overview of open source data center, robotics and Smart Home technology and discussions of home applications. Introduction to the home data center, MULE outdoor assistant, IGOR indoor assistant, Flitter personal robot, and Leotta voice interface concepts.

=- Beachhead - Setting-Up the On/Off Site Workspaces=

Depending on build strategy, the setup of the primary workshop(s) for the project based on either or both on-site trailer-based work camp and/or offsite but local workshop. Cover site details and prep. Possible side-trips to other fab labs or trailer workshops and 'stealth' caravans/RVs to explore shop ideas. 

=- Starting Core Build=

Covering basic structure fabrication. 

=- MULE robot build=

Building and testing the MULE outdoor assistant robot. Overview of use during build.

=- Completing Frame-In/Enclosure=

Completion of core structure of the home and roofing.

=- Interior Utilities=

Installation and setup of key plumbing manifolds, electrical, heating/cooling systems, and Smart Home hardware.

=- Data Center build and setup=

Assembling the OS PCs and other hardware for the home Data Center. Installation in initial home office. Expert visits. 

=- Starting Workshop and Microfarm Build=

Assembling extensions/modules for Workshop and Microfarm. Possibly more visits to Makerspaces and urban farms. 

=- Graywater and Living Machines=

Setup of greywater and Living Machine cultivation units and plumbing. Visits to Living Machine and Flowforms developers/researchers/exhibits.

=- Kitchen and Bath Finishing=

Details as per design choice. Possible tie-in visits to hardware makers. Alternative bathroom design may be based on repurposing of industrial items with tie-in visits to their sources.

=- Living Space Finish - Leotta setup=

Final touches for wall and floor covering, key furniture item builds, completing Smart Home installation and development and setup of Leotta home control. 

=- Workshop Finish and Tools Outfit=

Setting up the the home workshop and its different production zones.

=- Electroscooter build= 

Building and testing the un-Amish Electroscooter.

=- Wooden Workbike build=

Building and testing the Wooden Workbike. More visits to bike culture centers. 

=- IGOR build=

Building and testing the indoor assistant robot

=- Flitter build=

Building and testing the home drone. 

=- Velorex Redux=

OScar build overview and testing. More visits to OScar developers.

=- Microfarm Finish and Major Systems Outfit

Completion of the Microfarm setup, overview of finished system, with some overview of test growing results. Episode filmed/composed over protracted growing period.

=- Completion and Walk-Through - Lifestyle Showcase=

Last touches for all builds. Repeat overview of the Open Source Lifestyle concept using the finished Open House as a physical demonstration. Overview of occupants 'live-in' adaptation to the home and lifestyle. Examples of daily use of the various elements created across the project. 

=- Conclusions - Wrap Party=

Final discussions on the project with repeat interviews of key personalities. Discussion on the future of Post-Industrial culture. Video clips of project wrap party. 



[http://www.appropedia.org/Open_house_narrative >>return to Narrative]


[http://www.appropedia.org/Open_House:_Building_an_Open_Source_Lifestyle >>return to top]