
=Kitchen and Cooking=

In this section we discuss the kitchen design for the Open House and what special features may be showcased. What is different cooking with an open lifestyle? Most-obviously at present is that some common home appliances may not yet have equivalent open source designs. Microwave ovens, for instance. In some cases we may need to employ compromises, choosing generic or commodity forms to avoid corporate brand products, even if they aren't originally open but, more or less, public domain. Refrigerators, for instance, can be made from novel containers and cabinets using generic cooling units designed for use on boats and ships. Many induction stove-tops are quite generic in nature and designed for installation in any countertop. In some cases we might revive old technology, such as pottery water coolers and use hand-made or 3D printed dishware and utensils. 

Another aspect of the open kitchen is how it will relate to renewable energy use and alternative utilities. Use of greywater processing and composting are a given and we may employ use of solar cooking, possibly exploring the means to integrate high temperature outdoor heliostats into countertop use.

But a very interesting aspect may be the different spectrum of foods relating to the home Microfarm. In practice the Microfarm may only be capable of supplemental food production, but that's not insignificant and the cultivation of novel food products like algae or even food insects may make for an interesting variation on the conventional diet. 

One Idea I'm interested in relates to apiary use and the recent innovation of [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WbMV9qYIXqM self-tapping beehives.] Though unfortunately based on a proprietary core hive frame technology, the basic design of the homes conforms to traditional public domain hive designs. The compelling prospect of integrating a beehive right into a house to provide honey on tap at the kitchen counter. along with a window into the hive, may justify cheating a bit here, especially given how important the awareness of honey bee survival has become today. 

Another issue to consider with the kitchen design is the likely radical difference in kitchen design between the Pavilion style home and the other home designs. Most western kitchens are typically integrated into one or two walls of a home. The open plan Pavilion style home has no fixed walls and so the kitchen must be designed as a free-standing 'pod' or 'island' with an option for mobility. It may share plumbing with an adjacent or integral bathroom pod.



















[http://www.appropedia.org/Open_House:_Building_an_Open_Source_Lifestyle >>return to top]