
== Fabrication ==

This section is for discussion and development of the fabrication scheme planned for the 'bootstrapping' phase of the Open House build. The theory here is that the Open Home is bootstrapped by some kind of digital fabrication facility whose tools are then later incorporated into the home's own fabrication workshop, making it able to maintain, adapt, and replicate itself, possibly as the seed of an intentional community. So we are confronted by three possible strategies for this bootstrapping phase; pre-fabbing a package for the basic structure or key modules (as per the compound design) of the home off-site in an existing or temporary workshop facility and then assembling it on-site, creating a mobile temporary workshop, or employing a combination of those two approaches. 

Pre-fabbing has the important advantage of allowing one to use light industrial facilities that would be usable regardless of weather and serve very well as a studio for video production. We would not be limited by seasonal construction, greatly speeding up production, and a large space would allow one to prototype many features in a sheltered space. This is also a much better situation for team based building. A growing problem in the US of work site thievery also makes pre-fabbing safer as the least amount of on-site building time reduces the time a project is left unattended. Many Tiny Home projects now rely on temporary use of garage or industrial building space. However, such space may be expensive to rent. 

Commercial developers of digitally fabricated homes such as [http://facit-homes.com/ Facit Homes] commonly employ the use of a mobile workshop, often containerized, based on the idea that it's much more convenient to transport basic materials in bulk sheet form. Fully or partially pre-fabricated structures can be bulky and difficult to transport. Traditional owner/builder projects have likewise relied on on-site work using temporary housing because projects were projected--relying on the spare time during vacations and weekends--and, until quite recently, a pre-fabrication option simply didn't exist for typical homebuilding methods. On-site development also has the secondary advantage of allowing the project to explore and showcase some aspects of Nomadic living as part of its exploration of future lifestyle. 

Which approach is best is something of a toss-up at the moment and much may depend on the ultimate choice of housing design and the logistics of the particular build location.


[http://www.appropedia.org/Open_House:_Building_an_Open_Source_Lifestyle >>return to top]