'''Original environment rehabilitation manual''' refers to the rehabilitation of the environment to its previous state (the state in which it was in 1900; before any major human interference to the environment was done). 

==Definition specifics==
Rehabilitation of the environment to its previous state thus means that some human interference (eg some manipulation in rivers, some degree of human buildings and infrastructure, ...) would be tolerated, but only to a degree that interference to the ecosystem is kept to a minimum. Also, the manual would focus on a rehabilitation rather than a restoration, meaning that it would not envision to make the environment an exact copy of how the environment was in the 1900's (apart from the urban areas which would'nt be altered), but rather an environment which still produces products that are essential to humans (eg food, clothing, ...) but thus so with the least possible influence to the outside environment. This could be done by growing herbs at a location (far) away from the consumer's location, but also near the user. The latter option would decrease costs and increase [[self-sufficiency]], and  the interaction between humans and the natural environment could still be kept low (eg by modifying the plants to make the seeds infertile). The first option could reduce the interaction between humans and the natural environment even more (as no asexual propogation can occur neither) and might be more cost-efficient to grow certain crops (grains for example thrive best in colder climates, ...), and an additional advantage of colder climates is that most natural vegetation is already eradicated and replaced by herbs, making it more cost-effective of growing herbs here than in subtropical and tropical areas. If the second option is nevertheless required given the local circumstances, [[zoning]] may be best implemented.

==Understanding the natural treshold barrier==
To understand the natural treshold of the earth, we take a look at the multiple stable states theory. The multiple stable states theory implies that under the same conditions, different
stable ecosystems exist. It is easiest to explain using an example. Let's first focus on some desert areas. If in a dry area much vegetation is present, precipitation is well absorbed into the ground and little evaporates because the plants take up the light the soil is thus covered by shade and cool. One can say that the ecosystem is in a stable state. This is the stable state 1 (green and
overgrown). But if this system is cleared by logging and grazing goats it collapses and one gets the stable state 2. (desert without vegetation) Precipitation then flows away rapidly over the surface of the soil without structure. The water also evaporates much more quickly in the hot dry desert soil. The water disappears so soon that new plants do not get the chance to settle. Again a stable state but this time one of a totally degraded ecosystem, a barren desert. As such, one can
have with a same amount of rainfall in one area, good ecosystem in stable state 1
with much vegetation and in stable state 2 with only desert. To get the desert green again it is necessary to set up a good systeem which focuses on water conservation. Temporary water addition may be necessary to get the system back on track. Plants that grow back again ensure that water
is absorbed again and provides shade from the fierce sun making water evaporate less fast. Besides this, the plants themselves also evaporate much water, ensuring that the water
returns back into the air, hereby partly making their own rain. (A popular saying is that a forest can also be seen as a vertical lake) If the system is once again back on track, the additing of water soon becomes redundant and you no longer need to supply the system of
this commodity. With simple measures one can thus rebuild already destroyed ecosystems. Also, in the opposite direction, the multiple ctable states theory also offers
insight into the background how this is possible that we can also extract a certain amount of energy or food from the ecosystem without hurting or destroying it (as long as we don't extract ''too'' much).<ref>[http://www.permacultuurnederland.org/permacultuurtk/permacultuur5.0.pdf Multiple stable states]</ref>

==References==
{{reflist}}

[[Category:Original environment rehabilitation manual]]