{{TOCright}}
The [[Open Sustainability Network]] values openness and collaboration in the global development and global adoption of sustainable solutions.  A fuller charter for the Open Sustainability Network is planned for development at the upcoming [[OSNCamp]] in San Francisco in October, 2008.

'''What is OSN?'''
:OSN is a community-owned group of like-minded organizations and individuals that support the OSN mission.

'''The OSN Mission'''
:To overcome the barriers to large scale, inclusive collaborative problem solving and open information sharing in the area of sustainability. 

'''More information'''

For the time being, OSN activity and coordination is being handled online using wiki pages at Appropedia.org.  Specific commitments related to OSN are deliberately modest at this time.  As OSN develops, OSN commitments will be subject to revision through OSN activities and governance.  All OSN activities and governance events will be communicated to all members well in advance.  Revised charters consistent with the scope of the initial terms outlined in this pledge will be communicated to all OSN members.  Acceptance of the revised charter will be assumed, though of course any member may withdraw at any time.  

===Personal membership===
I pledge to:
* Support openness in sustainability in publications, such as blogs and newsletters, or email signatures
* Adopt open licensing wherever practical when publishing content in the area of sustainability
* Agree to openly acknowledge support of OSN 
* Allow OSN to use my name when listing members
* Agree to receive and, as appropriate, respond to OSN communications
* To engage in additional OSN member activities when able

''<small>To establish your membership, please copy and paste the above pledge into an email, and send to curtbeckmann (at) appropedia (dot) org.</small>''

===Organizational membership===
I certify that I am an authorized representative of ''(insert group name here)''.  My organization pledges to:
* Support openness in sustainability in publications, such as blogs and newsletters, or email signatures
* Adopt open licensing wherever practical when publishing content in the area of sustainability
* Agree to openly acknowledge support of OSN 
* Allow OSN to use my group's name and logo when listing members
* Designate a contact to receive and, as appropriate, respond to OSN communications
* To engage in additional OSN member activities when able
''<small>To establish your membership, please copy and paste the above pledge into an email, insert the organization name, and send to curtbeckmann (at) appropedia (dot) org.</small>''

===Additional OSN member activities===
* Join in promotion of OSN
**Posting OSN link and logo where appropriate on own web site
** Participating in joint press releases about OSN
** Mention OSN (the concept as well as events) occasionally in blogs and newsletters
* Participation 
** Identifying a primary organization contact person regarding OSN
** Select organization representatives to attend OSN events, either physically or "virtually"
** Select organization representatives to participate in phone conversations about OSN topics
** Development or approval of OSN guiding principles
*OSN Governance
** Assistance in managing the affairs of OSN
* Leading the coordination of occasional OSN events
* Financial sponsorship for OSN

''The Open Sustainability Network seeks supportive individuals and organizations as members.  Should you feel at any time that you are no longer supportive of OSN and its charter, simply notify OSN in writing or by email.  OSN commits to promptly remove any notice of your (organization's) endorsement, and will provide notification to the email address on file.''


NOTE: the first official OSN event is scheduled for October 18, 2008 in San Francisco.
== Protocol ==

After a "signed" pledge has been obtained then insert <nowiki>

{{OSN Member}}

</nowiki>
on the Organization page for the group in Appropedia. This will tag them as an organization while also adding them to [[:Category:OSN member organizations]]. 

If one has not been created already - create it - being sure to
#include the organization in all the appropriate categories and
#do a search and hyperlink for all mentions of the organization already in Appropedia.

[[Category:Open Sustainability Network]]