We're planning a OSNCamp in London - the second meeting of the [[Open Sustainability Network]] (the first was in San Francisco: [[OSNCamp 2008]]).

There are two proposed events:
*  A possible mini BarCamp in late 2008 or early 2009. This would be an informal half day or evening gathering;
* There is talk of a more serious event in early 2009.

== Late 2008 ==
This is planned as a [[mini BarCamp]]. (That just seems more achievable, although it can be made longer if the participants wish. One option is to do it early, and let people continue informally if they wish.) This means:
* Around half a day,
* At least X orgs or Y people to firmly commit before confirming the date and details? ''(I originally set X=5 and Y=10, but this is not really necessary, if it's very informal. --[[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] 22:03, 29 November 2008 (UTC))''

Details:
* Sometime between mid-Dec and mid-Jan. Vinay is in London until (probably) at least mid-Jan, so definitely something should happen before then. Andrew Lamb is busy until mid-December.

== Publicity ==
* London nodes and networks such as "The Hub".
* Likeminded Twitterers such as [[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] ([http://twitter.com/chriswaterguy @chriswaterguy] & managing [http://twitter.com/appropedia @appropedia]) & Julius Solaris ([http://twitter.com/tojulius @tojulius] & [http://twitter.com/ecoCamp ecoCamp]), and their networks.
* Everyone mentioned below can tell their networks!

== Attendees ==
This is being initiated because of a several interested people being in London at that time. Likely attendees are listed below.

=== Suggested ===

If there's someone you think should come, please add them here:
* [[Andrew Lamb]]?
:* CEO of [[EWB-UK]], director of the Appropedia Foundation, formerly of [[Red-R]].
* [[Jonathan Gray]]? 
:* [[Open Knowledge Foundation]] (OKFN)[http://okfn.org/]
* Julius Solaris
:* http://www.eventmanagerblog.com/about-me/
(...and many more that don't come to mind right now.)
* '''Rob Hopkins'''
:* Author of [[The Transition Handbook]]

[[Andrew Lamb]], [[Vinay Gupta]], and the OKFN people will know many more people to invite.

=== Confirmed ===

Add/move your name to this section if you will definitely  Final confirmation
* [[Vinay Gupta]]
:* [[Hexayurt]], Appropedian

=== Interested, not promising ===

If you really want to come, but are not making a commitment, add your name here. (Also add your name if the date doesn't suit you, as there is talk of a larger event in the new year.)

* [[Mark Charmer]]
:* [[Akvo]][http://www.akvo.org/] Want to come, but can't do December. Would need to be after 13th January.
* [[User:Philralph|Philralph]] (Phil Green, founder [[wikia:sca21:Sustainable_Community_Action:Community_Portal|Sustainable Community Action wiki]] )

[[Category:OSNCamp]]