{{DISPLAYTITLE:''Our Bodies, Ourselves''}}
'''''Our Bodies, Ourselves''''' is a book about women's health and sexuality produced by the nonprofit organization Our Bodies Ourselves (originally called the Boston Women's Health Book Collective). First published in 1973, it contains information related to many aspects of women's health and sexuality, including [[menopause]], [[birth control]], [[childbirth]], sexual health, [[sexual orientation]],  [[gender identity]], [[mental health]] and general well-being. 

Now in its 12th edition, and published in over 20 languages and [[braille]], the current edition, calling itself "a new edition for a new era," contains 832 pages, including new pictures, diagrams, and interviews. ''[[The New York Times]]'' has called the book  "America's best-selling book on all aspects of women's health" and a "feminist classic." {{ref|back_cover}} 

In addition the book has inspired single-topic spin-off books. In October 2006, the first of these books, Our Bodies, Ourselves: Menopause was published, and Our Bodies, Ourselves: Pregnancy and Birth was released in March 2008. 

==Style==
The first book was a product of the [[feminist movement]] and could still be said to reflect its values. The personal experiences of women are taken into account and are quoted throughout, while the social and political context of women's health informs the content of the book.

Topics such as [[male-to-female]] and [[female-to-male]] [[transsexualism]]/[[transgenderism]] are discussed in the most recent edition and considered in a nonjudgmental manner, despite the controversy to which they have been subject within the feminist movement. The writing style of the book tends toward a familiar, inclusive tone, with the authors referring to women and themselves as a collective group.

The current edition uses material published in the 1984, 1992, and 1998 editions, and was made possible from a grant by [[Brigham and Women's Hospital]] and the Boston University School of Public Health. The book's advisory committee included [[Teresa Heinz Kerry]], Susan Love, and [[Gloria Steinem]].

==Chapter Topics in Book==
All of the contents of the book is available on the [http://www.ourbodiesourselves.org/default.asp website] plus additional web only material.

'''Taking Care of Ourselves'''<br />
1: Body Image<br />
2: Eating Well<br />
3: Alcohol, Tobacco, and Other Mood-Altering Drugs<br />
4: Our Bodies in Motion<br />
5: Complementary Health Practices<br />
6: Emotional Well-Being<br />
7: Environmental and Occupational Health<br />
8: Violence and Abuse<br />
<br />
'''Relationships and Sexuality'''<br />
9: [[Gender Identity]] and [[Sexual Orientation]]<br />
10: Relationships with Men<br />
11: Relationships with Women<br />
12: [[human sexuality|Sexuality]]<br />
<br />
'''Sexual Health'''<br />
13: Sexual Anatomy, Reproduction, and the [[menstrual cycle]]<br />
14: [[Safer Sex]]<br />
15: [[Sexually Transmitted Infections]]<br />
16: [[HIV]] and [[AIDS]]<br />
<br />
'''Reproductive Choices'''<br />
17: Considering Parenting<br />
18: [[Birth Control]]<br />
19: Unexpected Pregnancy<br />
20: [[Abortion]]<br />
<br />
'''Child-Bearing'''<br />
21: [[Pregnancy]]<br />
22: [[Childbirth]]<br />
23: The First Year of Parenting<br />
24: Child-Bearing Loss<br />
25: Infertility and Assisted Reproduction<br />
<br />
'''Growing Older'''<br />
26: Midlife and [[Menopause]]<br />
27: Our Later Years<br />
<br />
'''Medical Problems and Procedures'''<br />
28: Unique to Women<br />
29: Special Concerns for Women<br />
<br />
'''Knowledge is Power'''<br />
30: Navigating the Health Care System<br />
31: The Politics of Women’s Health<br />
32: Organizing for Change

==Translations==
The book has been translated into other languages, including adapting the content to suit the needs of women in other cultures. The Our Bodies, Ourselves website has an up to date list of [http://www.ourbodiesourselves.org/programs/network/foreign/default.asp translation projects].

==Further reading==
*[http://www.ourbodiesourselves.org ''Our Bodies, Ourselves'' companion website]
*[http://www.thenation.com/doc/20080616/gordon Translating 'Our Bodies, Ourselves']

This article is based on information by the editors of [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Our_Bodies,_Ourselves Wikipedia]

== See also ==

* [[Menstrual pads]]

== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:Our Bodies, Ourselves]]

[[Category:Health and safety]]
[[Category:Gender]]