=== Covered bike racks at Fabrica La Estrella ===
;Description
:There appear to be hundreds of bicycles hung on a series of these racks just inside the entrance to the fabrica (factory).  The bicycles are unlocked.  The racks, I'm told, were manufactured in Torreón.

;Location
:At the intersection of 16 de Septiembre and Ramos Arizpe.

;Justification
:Active non-motorized transportation offers benefits to its users' health, the community at large, and earth's climate.  Covered bike racks, specifically, offer bicyclists greater status (as people worthy of finding a dry seat when they go to use their bike), and make bicycle parking a more emphasized part of the landscape.  Improving the status of bicyclists is particularly important in Parras, as the bicycle is identified as a [[poor]] person's vehicle, and they are afforded little respect on the road.  Drunk driving is rampant on weekends.  It happens that on the morning of 4 June 2006, a bicyclist was run over early in the morning.  In such accidents, as in this case, the driver most frequently does not stop.  If covered bike racks are to truly improve the status of bicycles, however, they must be installed outside of the factory, as in this location they are intended to serve the the lower-class labor force of the factory exclusively, and are invisible to the greater community.

;Issues
:The factory: labor practices, waste water, etc.  Long distance travel using bikes can be difficult.  Also, bikes require frequent maintenance, whereas cars require less frequent but more costly maintenance.

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:Parrasfactoriabikerack.jpg|
|Image:Parrasfactoriabikerack-close.jpg|
}}

=== Triciclos ===
;Description
:Triciclo para vender unos refrescos.  These tricycles are common in Parras and are frequently used as mobile stands to sell food, beverages, or other goods.  They are also used as cargo vehicles.  They are almost always painted yellow.  The fellow pictured below said they are available at local Ferreterias ([[Parras Hardware Stores|Hardware Stores]]).

;Location
:This photo was taken at the plaza con la biblioteca.

;Justification
:Active non motoroized transportation offers benefits to its users' health, the community at large, and earth's climate.  See [[Parras Sustainable Transportation Presentation]].

;Issues
:The beverages offered may not be the most healthful.  I am not sure if they are locally produced.

{{Gallery
|width=277
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:Tricicleta.jpg|
}}

===Bicycles===
;Description
:Alternative transportation

;Location
:En una calle circa de Santa Madero

;Justification as [[Appropriate]]
:Bicycling improves the safety of the community, the health of the bicyclist, the local air quality, and the local economy (most money spent on automobiles leaves the local economy).  Alternative transportation reduces the use of valuable natural resources by reducing fossil fuel consumption and reducing road construction and maintenance. Alternative transportation also improves the community by increasing face-to-face interactions and strengthening the relationship of humans to their environment.  

;Issues with the Appropriateness
:Unfortunately, bicycles are viewed in Parras as transportation for those who don't own a car.  Cars are viewed as a status symbol.

;Notes
:The car in this image doesn't work, and the father is working hard to fix the problem.  Both he and the boy were embarrassed to have a picture taken of the car before it was fixed.

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:Trans1.jpg|
}}

===Bicycling===
;Description
:Bicycling to school and other places around town. 

;Location
:It´s stored in my house but the bike goes many places!

;Justification as Appropriate
:It's sustainable, easy to use and doesn't cost much once you have the bike. You don't have to pay for gas which is always good.

;Issues with the Appropriateness
:I think it works pretty well with everything. People with physical problems might not be able to use it.

;Notes
:E.G. LINK TO THE ORGANIZATION OR PROJECT, DELETE IF NOT APPLICABLE.

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=268
|lines=0
|Image:Parras_bicycle_riding.jpg|
}}

===Instructions===
To add a new AT implementation to this resource, Copy and paste the following into notepad. Make the appropriate edits (replace allcap text) and then paste above the Instructions line in the edit window. 
{{Parras AT}}

[[Category:AT Photos]]
[[Category:Parras AT]]
[[Category:Transport]]