===Wind Powered Pump: Swimming Pool===
;Description
:A [[Wind power|windmill]] is used to power a water pump which fills a swimming pool.  At this time the home is still under construction, and the pool is being utilized as a water source for construction needs.

;Location
:Very near Estanque de Zapata, it is the closest windmill to the entrance of the underground stream.

;Justification
:In a climate such as Parras going for a dip in a pool is an effective way to cool off, adding to human health and happiness.  Swimming is much more [[energy]] efficient than using an air conditioner, and by using the wind to pump the water no energy is consumed.  

;Issues
:There is a somewhat large initial investment, also some people have astetic issues with the windmills.  If there is no wind there is no flowing water, which could cause a [[health]] concern if this was for an extended amount of time.

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:Windpowerpool.jpg|
}}

===Wind Powered Pump: Irrigation===
;Description
:A windmill is used to power a [[Pumping|pump]], which fills a tank.  The water in the tank is used to irrigate an orchard, as an added benefit [[Aquaculture|fish]] are grown in the tank.

;Location
:Near Estanque de Zapata, turn at the small store near the entrance to the underground stream.

;Justification
:In Parras there is not much surface water, but there is a large supply underground.  The wind powered pump provides means of acquiring this water so that [[agriculture]] can be supported.  The system supplies a source of income, and food from the plants and fish.

;Issues
:There is a somewhat large initial investment, also some people have aesthetic issues with the windmills.  If there is no wind there is no flowing water and if the reservoir goes dry there is no water for irrigation, a backup pump may be needed.

{{Gallery
|width=225
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:Irrigationall.jpg|
|Image:Irrigatioplant.jpg|
}}

<!--paste code here-->

===Instructions===
To add a new AT implementation to this resource, Copy and paste the following into notepad. Make the appropriate edits (replace allcap text) and then paste above the Instructions line in the edit window. 
{{Parras AT}}

[[Category:AT Photos]]  
[[Category:Parras AT]]
[[Category:Wind power]]