===Estanque de la Luz===
;Description
:You can´t miss the Estanque de la Luz when you go to Parras! It´s the most obvious and fun use of water in the town. It is used as a swimming pool and as a water source for irrigation.

;Location
:6 blocks west and 2 blocks south of UTC. 

;Justification
:The Estanque is AT because it has two uses, for fun, and for irrigation. 

;Issues
:The water that fills the tank comes from the nearby mountains and is a seemingly endless resource. Or is it? When will it run out?  

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:Tank.jpg|
}}

==Washtubs==
;Description
:The washtubs on the irrigation canal below Estanque de la Luz are used by the local people for washing clothes. 

;Justification
:The washtubs below the Estanque may or may not be AT depending on what type of soap they use. The good part is that clothes are being washed without using [[electricity]] and are probably being dried by the sun on a line.

;Issues
:If the people are using non-biodegradable soap in the wash tubs, it is polluting the environment. A possible solution would be to try to get the people to start using more environmentally friendly [[soaps]]. One plant that grows nearby can be used as a soap. 

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:Washtub.jpg|
}}

===Community Irrigation===
;Description
:The water supply for the town is shared publicly through channels that run throughout the town and are directed towards different areas of the town at different times of the day. 

;Location
:The channels are located along the streets of Parras. 

;Justification as [[Appropriate]]
:It is an example of [[appropriate technology]] because it makes directs the water of the town by using gravity rather than generators. It also is shared by the entire community, keeping water a public commodity rather than something one has to pay for. 

;Issues with the Appropriateness
The channels are open, exposing the water to serious pollution. The exact schedule of when the water is diverted in each direction is unknown. The sharing of water may not be equal. 

===Instructions===
To add a new AT implementation to this resource, Copy and paste the following into notepad. Make the appropriate edits (replace allcap text) and then paste above the Instructions line in the edit window. 
{{Parras AT}}

[[Category:AT Photos]]  
[[Category:Parras AT]]
[[Category:Water]]