Hello current and past Parras Program Participants.  Please help create this list of important items to bring to Parras by clicking the edit tab above (you must be logged in first).  Use an * to add a new item, use a ** below an item to make a comment.  In addition, if you are making a comment, please add a <nowiki>--~~~</nowiki> after your comment.  This will let us know who you are, so that we can ask questions.

==What to Pack==
*Swimming suit
*An elegant outfit
*A light long sleeve shirt
*A small gift for your new family
**Less than $10 --[[User:Lonny|Lonny]]
**Something local is usually good --[[User:Lonny|Lonny]]
**Coffee is a really, really good idea. Bayside Roasters went over really well. --[[User:La changa|La changa]]
*One light rain jacket
*Work clothes
*A CD or mp3 player --[[User:aleiha|aleiha]]
*A laptop if you have one --[[User:aleiha|aleiha]]
*Sunscreen (because the stuff here is expensive) --[[User:aleiha|aleiha]]
**Organic Sunscreen so you can use it when swimming at Cuatro Cienegas! --[[User:waterfaery72|waterfaery72]]
*I wish I hadn't brought a jacket- a long sleeve works wonderfully
--[[User:waterfaery72|waterfaery72]]
*You like decent tea and coffee?  I suggest bringing a pretty serious supply.
--[[User:waterfaery72|waterfaery72]]
*You smoke American Spirits?  Bring your own unless you can adjust to smoking Marlboro Reds or Pall Mall.
--[[User:waterfaery72|waterfaery72]]
*An umbrella- I keep one in my backpack at all times- the rain is sudden and strong.
--[[User:waterfaery72|waterfaery72]]
*A good sun hat- "they" will tell you that you can buy one once you get there.  But what "they" won't tell you is that the hats available in Parras are cowboyed-out to the max and not particularly cool. --[[User:waterfaery72|waterfaery72]]
*Immodium and Cipro for your stomach (saved my life) --[[User:La changa|La changa]]

[[Category:Parras]]