{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality,
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
There is an estimated 3,100 newborn deaths worldwide each day within the first 24 hours of birth. This number could be dramatically lowered if breastfeeding and warmth to the child were provided immediately. Without this treatment, infants are susceptible to hypothermia and potentially, death.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This affordable infant warmer harnesses solar power from lightweight, high-efficiency photovoltaic modules and uses phase change material to store the heat.  It has a low-cost temperature monitoring system to ensure infant safety. Once established, it is estimated to cost under $200.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Program for Appropriate Technologies in Health (PATH)
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location: Seattle, WA USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
 
==Funding Source==
Finalist in Saving Lives at Birth Competition

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===

===Other internally generated reports===
===Externally generated reports===
Saving Lives at Birth. (2011). Extremely affordable solar-powered infant warmer to complement skin-to-skin care. Retrieved November 10, 2013 from [http://savinglivesatbirth.net/summaries/72 here.]

PATH solar powered infant warmer. Retrieved November 10, 2013 from [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/path-solar-powered-infant-warmer here.]

===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->