{{MOST}}
{{Pearce-pubs}}


* M. A. Kreiger, D. R. Shonnard, J.M. Pearce, "[http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2012.10.002 Life Cycle Analysis of Silane Recycling in Amorphous Silicon-Based Solar Photovoltaic Manufacturing]" ''Resources, Conservation & Recycling'', 70, pp.44-49 (2013).&nbsp; [http://www.academia.edu/2310926/Life_Cycle_Analysis_of_Silane_Recycling_in_Amorphous_Silicon-Based_Solar_Photovoltaic_Manufacturing Open access]

* Joshua M. Pearce, “[http://www.photovoltaicsinternational.com/technical_papers/industrial_symbiosis_in_photovoltaic_manufacturing Industrial Symbiosis in Photovoltaic Manufacturing]”, ''Photovoltaics International'' 13, pp. 26-31&nbsp; (2011).

* R. Andrews and J.M. Pearce, “[http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2011.04.016 Environmental and Economic Assessment of a Greenhouse Waste Heat Exchange]”, ''Journal of Cleaner Production'' 19, pp. 1446-1454 (2011). [https://www.academia.edu/1484967/Environmental_and_Economic_Assessment_of_a_Greenhouse_Waste_Heat_Exchange open access]

* W. Doyle and J. M. Pearce, “Utilization of Virtual Globes for Open Source Industrial Symbiosis”, ''Open Environmental Sciences'', 3, pp. 88-96, 2009. [https://www.academia.edu/1490894/Utilization_of_Virtual_Globes_for_Open_Source_Industrial_Symbiosis open access]

* Amir H. Nosrat, Jack Jeswiet, and Joshua M. Pearce, “[http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TIC-STH.2009.5444358 Cleaner Production via Industrial Symbiosis in Glass and Large-Scale Solar Photovoltaic Manufacturing]” ''Proceedings 2009 IEEE Toronto International Conference – Science and Technology for Humanity (TIC-STH)'', pp. 967-970. [https://www.academia.edu/1505293/Cleaner_production_via_industrial_symbiosis_in_glass_and_largescale_solar_photovoltaic_manufacturing open access]

* Joshua M. Pearce, "[http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2007.07.002 Industrial Symbiosis for Very Large Scale Photovoltaic Manufacturing]", ''Renewable Energy ''33, pp. 1101-1108, 2008. [https://www.academia.edu/1485066/Industrial_Symbiosis_for_Very_Large_Scale_Photovoltaic_Manufacturing open access]

* Joshua M. Pearce, Sara J. Johnson, and Gabriel B. Grant, “[http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2006.10.010 3D-Mapping Optimization of Embodied Energy of Transportation]”, ''Resources, Conservation and Recycling'', 51 pp. 435–453, 2007. [https://www.academia.edu/1484569/3D-mapping_optimization_of_embodied_energy_of_transportation open access]

[[category:Pearce publications]]
[[Category:Industrial ecology]]
[[Category:Industrial processes]]