How do you go about installing a [[permaculture]] garden in Chicago and Cook County?  See [[Beginners permaculture garden]] for general guidelines for starting a permaculture garden.  That's fine for general guidelines.  What are the specifics for Chicago?  Where is the best place to go in our area for a soil test, bed framing, top soil, drip lines, a composter, and a rain barrel?

== Soil Contamination and Testing ==
[http://www.urbanext.uiuc.edu/soiltest/ Listing of soil testing labs] by Univ. of Illinois Extension Services.

Lead in soils in Chicago:

http://www.personal.psu.edu/jdh358/Courses/Geog586/QuarterProject/final/final.htm

Map:
 
* http://www.personal.psu.edu/jdh358/Courses/Geog586/QuarterProject/final/figure6.htm
*  http://asap.sustainability.uiuc.edu/groups/Urbansoil/leadfolder/Pbpage

GreenNet: 
*  [http://www.greennetchicago.org/soil_contamination.html Soil Contamination]

== Bed framing ==
== Top soil ==
== Drip lines ==
A source of free information:

[http://www.irrigationtutorials.com/dripguide.htm Irrigation Tutorials]

== Composter ==
== Rain barrel ==
For Chicago residents it's not so much the best place as the best time. That is to say, the City of Chicago will several times over the course of a year, sell rain barrels and Earth Machine "rat proof" composters for less than half the amount one would spend at a green store. Be sure to bring your drivers license as they will check for residency.

[http://www.urbanext.uiuc.edu/homecomposting/qanda.html dated site]

== Notes ==
On old tires as planters: [http://www.motherearthnews.com/Ask-Our-Experts/Organic-Gardening/Tire-Planters-And-Garden-Soil.aspx Tire-Planters-And-Garden-Soil]

The only problem I have with this information is that it may not be directly relevant as they're talking about using the old tires as planters and not as raised beds.  In our situtation, some of the decomposing agents, namely, UV and O_3, would not be hitting the tires, but I'd still be slightly wary of doing this.  - Thx to Nathan C.

[[Category:Cook county, Illinois]]
[[Category:How tos]]
[[Category:Permaculture techniques]]
[[Category:Urban agriculture]]
[[Category:Horticulture and gardening]]