One of the major [[permaculture]] texts is '''''Permaculture: A Designers' Manual''''' (sometimes referred to as the "big black book" or the "bible of permaculture"). Published in 1988, it is [[Bill Mollison]]'s most comprehensive treatment of permaculture design. It serves as the basis for the 72-hour [[permaculture design certificate]] system, and is one of the main reference books for permaculture designers. It is indisputably a central text in any permaculture library, however some have criticized it's reception in the permaculture community. Much of its content is speculative, and untested by Mollison. The text has also not been updated since its first publication, during which time many of the themes in the book have been developed and other concepts and practices have been incorporated into permaculture. As David Jacke put it, "Bill Mollison's ''Designers' Manual'' is a first draft. It is not the frickin' Bible. [...] You have to take that book with a grain of salt. [...] My book ''[[Edible Forest Gardens]]'' is ''way'' a first draft. [..] There is so much for all of us to learn [...] Permaculture is not finished by a long shot."<ref>[http://www.thepermaculturepodcast.com/2014/davejacke/ The Permaculture Podcast, Episode 1479: Ecological Culture Design with Dave Jacke]</ref>

== Chapters ==

# Introduction
# Concepts and Themes in Design
# Methods of Design
# Pattern Understanding
# Climatic Factors
# Trees and their Energy Transactions
# Water
# Soils
# Earthworking and Earth Resources
# The Humid Tropics
# Dryland Strategies
# Humid Cool to Cold Climates
# Aquaculture
# The Strategies of an Alternative Global Nation

== References ==
<references/>

[[Category:Books]]
[[Category:Permaculture]]