{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Philips breath counter.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Infant pneumonia is one of the leading causes of fatalities in children under the age of five, claiming more than two million children's lives every year.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Breath Counter measures the number of breaths taken by a patient to diagnose pneumonia.   Once an activation button is pressed, the device counts each breath taken by an infant for one minute. A total of three tests are taken, and the count results for all three tests are displayed on an LCD screen.  The device is powered by solar cells and has a lifespan of more than five years.  It can be worn around the neck.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Philips Philanthropy by Design Program
*Manufacturer: Philips Design
*Manufacturer location: 2301 Fifth Avenue, Suite 200, Seattle WA, 98121-1825

==Planning and Implementation==
Philips partnered with international organizations, such as Save the Children, WHO, and Nepal Family Health Program in developing the Breath Counter.

==Funding Source==
Private sources through Philips Philanthropy by Design.

==References==
===Other internally generated reports===
Philips Philanthropy by Design. (2009). Fighting pneumonia. Full PDF available [http://www.design.philips.com/shared/assets/design_assets/downloads/portfolio/FightingPneumonia.pdf here].

===Externally generated reports===
Bloomberg Businessweek. (n.d.). 15 Best Heavy Duty Designs: Breath Counter. Link available [http://images.businessweek.com/ss/09/07/0729_IDEA_awards_commercial/4.htm here]

Maternova. (2011). Philips’ Breath Counter. More information available [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/philips-breath-counter here].