== Background  ==

Photo-Voltaic Electric Thin film on P Street, Eureka, CA Presentation by Larissa Koerner 

This site has a unique rolled roofing material which was installed in 2002. Larissa stated that this particular style of PV system is only one of two in the nation; the other located in Washington DC. The PV material in this application is used in place of standard shingle roofing. The decision to use this application was due to the need for solar power and the standard roofing needing replacement. 

<br> The first grid tied systems started in 1999. An inverter is necessary to have a grid tied system and also doubles as a safety precaution. The inverter converts DC current into AC current which is needed for use with the demands of the common household. Rebates were very prevalent during the beginning of the century but due to the current state budget problems, rebates have been reduced dramatically. Rebates are based on the efficiency of the system and not strictly on the price. The Amorphous (thin film) system at this location is less efficient than crystal PV panels. High intensity heat, cloud cover and dirt buildup on the PV surface also reduces efficiency. A south facing 19-22 degree tilt is ideal for maximum solar exposure for a 42 degree latitude. 

<br> 

== System Information  ==

The following data is from the interview with Larissa Koerner. 

<br> System overview: 

*Type: Amorphous 2.5 kilowatt system 
*Inverter: Sunny Boy 
*240 volt

Energyproduced: 

*From 2002 to 10/4/09 21,534 kilowatt hours

Cost: 

*$17,000

Efficiency: 

*Three times the space is needed to produce the same amount of power as a common flat panel PV design.