On site Photovoltaic on 12st, Arcata Presentation by Daniel Titman 

This is a grid tied crystal panel PV system which was installed in 2004. There is no battery backup for a grid tied system. When the PV array is no longer receiving sun light, conventional energy from a local energy provider can be used. The home owners received $8,700 in tax credits/ rebates at the time of installation. Depending on latitude location the panels should have less degree tilt at lower latitudes and greater degree tilt at higher latitudes. The ideal tilt for a roof mounted panel at the sites location (Arcata, Ca) is 42 degrees latitude with a 22 degree tilt. A crystal 4x8 PV panel produces 1000 watts per meter squared. 

<br> 

The following data is from an interview with Daniel Titman 

*Adjustable panels are not worth the time or money to put in place. 
*AC PV panels can be plugged directly into Romex (standard household wiring) 
*35% of the energy is used while the rest is lost to transmission. 
*The price of the panels reduced from $7-8 per watt down to $3-4 per watt over the last two years. 
*A bigger inverter would be needed if a battery backup was in place. 
*A 4x8 panel cost $800-900 dollars. 
*Nano technology was mentioned during the discussion as a new way to make PV panels.

<br> 

System overview: 

*3.2 Kilowatt 
*16 panels 
*Inverter: Sunny boy<br>

Power produced: 

*13,944 kilowatts have been produced by the system on 10/4/09<br>

Cost: 

*$21,000-27,000 installed<br>

Efficiency: 

*20% efficient panels 
*95% efficient in conversion in inverter 
*&lt;1% line loss 
[[Category:Photovoltaics]]