==Appendix 1: Illustrations==

'''Asmae'''
Chapter 4 photos 8 and 14
Chapter 5 photos 5, 7, 8, 9 and 13
Chapter 6 photos 2 and 3
 
Asmae is an association that, since 1981, manufactures and/or organizes singing and animation camps, and projects in partnership with associations and local communities, and sensibilizes the youth for North-South, South-South and North-South exchange projects.

The Asmae association shares its database listing all the recycling techniques developed by several developing countries in all fields (plastic, metal, fabric, paper, glass ...). The waste pickers from Mokattam (Cairo - Egypt) have agreed to share their formidable creativity in recycling with the ASBL Asmae. While 20 years ago, the scavengers were only small to medium waste recyclers, they are gradually becoming the best recyclers of the planet. It is by trial and error that they are able to develop interesting recycling techniques.

Asmae ASBL
Av. de Wolume-St-Lambert, 14
1200 Brussels
E-mail: info@asmae.org
http://www.asmae.org

Volens
Chapter 4 photos 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10
Chapter 5, photo 10, 11 and 12
 
VOLENS is a Belgian NGO specialized in the sending of cooperators, development education and the set-up of development projects. For this, Volens can count on 26 local sections and thirty support groups which form the basis of the Volens organisation and his local roots, closer to the population. These sections and support groups perform in collaboration with the development education service, an information, sensibilisation, and education around the second and third-world projects which they support as well as performing fundraising actions to finance these projects.
Before its merger with Volens, SOS/PG has mounted various partnerships through the "Service
Projects". It is also how SOS/PG has partnered with the Mexican organization DIA-AC (Desarrollo Integral Autogestionario - Asociación Civil) which has favored a project financed by DGDC in its five-year program of 1998-2002. This project consisted of the "Establishment of a basic model of small popular plastic recycling workshops for a distribution in the state of Morelos". All photographs from this project were taken by DIA-AC.

VOLENS ASBL
Secretariat in Brussels:
rue de Molenbeek, 122
1020 Brussels
Tel 00 32 (0) 2 201 02 70
E-mail: info@volens.be
Secretariat in Ans:
rue de l'Yser, 
258 to 4430 Ans
Tel: 00 32 (0) 4 247 75 75

CIPRE
Chapter 2, photo 3
Chapter 3, photos 2, 8, 9 and 12
Chapter 4, photos 1, 3, 15 and 16
Chapter 5, photo 3
Chapter 6, photo 1
 
The Centre International de Promotion de la REcuparation (CIPRE) is a Cameroonian NGO that represents an international calling in the recovery of waste. The main purpose of its existence is both economic and environmental development. Its project "Cité PROPRE (Promotion du Recylage des Ordures plastiques et de la Récupération des Emballages)" enabled it to implement an approach of collection and recycling of plastic waste throughout the city of Yaounde. This project was supported by Mission de Coopération et d'Action Culturelle (MCAC) of the Fonds Social de Développement (FSD). Technical assistance was provided by GRET (Groupe de Reserche et d'Echanges Technologiques, France). Currently, CIPRE is extending its activities to the city of Douala.
The photos illustrating this project were taken by Sébastien Willerval, André Frisayé (Foundation
Frisayé) and George Van den Bossche (ISF)
CIPRE
B.P. 14180, Yaounde, Cameroon
E-mail: ciprepropre@yahoo.fr
 
WASTE Consultants
Chapter 3, photo 3
 
WASTE Consultants is a Dutch NGO involved in development projects for small businesses in order to improve living conditions in the urban regions with low income. WASTE Consultants is active in four areas: solid waste management and recycling, water management and sanitation, the use of bicycles as a means of urban transportation, the improving of community life.
WASTE Consultants
Nieuwehaven, 201
2801 CW Gouda, Netherlands
fax: + 31 182 5503 13
http://www.waste.nl

==Appendix 2: Bibliography==
* Ali M., Cotton A. ;  The  sweeping  business : Developing  entrepreneurial  skills  for  the collection of solid waste ; WEDC Loughborough University ; (United Kingdom) ; 2001. 
* Bareel P.F. ; Rapport de mission Kinshasa 2003 : Evaluation d’un projet de recyclage de déchets plastiques ; 
* Ingénieurs Assistance Internationale – Ingénieurs sans Frontières ; Liège (Belgique) ; 2003. 
* Breyne P., Kellens M.A.,  Sorel N.  ;  Les  emballages  plastiques  ; Ministère de la  Région Wallonne ; Jambe (Belgique) ; 1995. 
* Christiaan Haan H., Coad A., Lardinois I. ; Gestion des déchets municipaux : Engager des micro- et petites entreprises ; Intermediate Technology Publications Ltd ; Londres (Royaume-Uni) ; 1999. 
* Compte-rendu: Journée  de  réflexion  sur  le  recyclage  des  matières  plastiques  dans les  projets de développement; Ingénieurs  Assistance Internationale – Ingénieurs sans Frontières; Bruxelles (Belgique); 2002.
* Des déchets et des hommes – Expériences urbaines de recyclage dans le tiers monde; Enda Tiers-monde; Dakar (Sénégal); 1990. 
* Dudez P. ; Le séchage à petite échelle des fruits et légumes; Edtions GRET; Paris (France); 1996. 
* Dulac N.; Integrated Sustainable Waste Management –the Organic Waste Flow; WASTE Consultants; Gouda (the Netherlands); 2001. 
* Esha S.; Occupational health impact of plastic recycling; 23rd WEDC Conference, Water and sanitation for all : partnerships and innovations ; Durban (South Africa); 1997. 
* Guía para el manejo del reciclaje de los plásticos en micro-talleres; Desarrollo Integral Autogestionario A.C. – Equipo Pueblo Morelos ; Cuernavaca (México); 1999. 
* Lardinois I., van de Klundert A.; Plastic Waste: options for small-scale resource recovery; WASTE Consultants; Gouda (the Netherlands); 1995. 
* Loozen R.; Fabrication de planches à partir de déchets plastiques; CODEART; Hombourg (Belgique); 1998. 
Modecom<sup>TM</sup> et les collectes séparatives: Compléments au guide méthodologique de caractérisation des ordures ménagères ; ADEME Editions ; Paris (France); 1997. 
Modecom<sup>TM</sup>: Méthode de caractérisation des ordures ménagères; ADEME Editions; Paris (France); 1993. 
* Muller M., Hoffman L.; Integrated  Sustainable Waste Management – Community Partnerships; WASTE Consultants; Gouda (the Netherlands); 2001.
* Rajaram V.; Plastic Reprocessing Pilot Project Bangalore: Needs assessment – Environmental, safety and occupational health dimension; WASTE Consultants; Gouda (the Netherlands); 1998.
* Rajaram V., Esha S.; Plastic  Recycling  in  Bangalore – India; WASTE  Consultant; Gouda (the Netherlands); 1998.
* Recycling plastics: technical  brief; Intermediate Technology Development Group; Rugby (United Kingdom).
* Rollet J., Fontaine E.; Travail des plastiques – Plasturgie; Librairie Delagrave; Paris (France); 1970. 
* Scheinberg A.; Integrated Sustainable Waste Management – Financial Sustainable Waste Management;  WASTE Consultants ; Gouda (the Netherlands) ; 2001. 
* Scheinberg A. ; Integrated Sustainable Waste Management – Micro and Small Enterprises ;WASTE Consultants; Gouda (the Netherlands); 2001. 
* Tchuente R., Willerval S., de Boismenu I., Hennart C.; La valorisation des déchets plastiques de Yaoundé (Cameroun); CIPRE; Youndé (Cameroun).
* Thuillier F. ; Guide  Technique d’Aide à la Décision pour la création d’unités artisanales de séchage agroalimentaire; Edition Geres; Paris (France); 1999. 
* van de Klundert A., Anschütz J.; Integrated Sustainable Waste Management – the concept; WASTE Consultants; Gouda (the Netherlands); 2001. 
* Van Hove I., Genard O. ;  Atelier Art-utic: Récupération et transformation artisanales des sachets de plastiques usagés; Enda Tiers-monde; Dakar (Sénégal); 1996.
* Vogler J.; Small-scale recycling of plastics; Intermediate Technology Publications; London (UK) ;1984.

[[Category:Plastics recovery manual]]