'''Water purification at the point of use''' (usually in the home) is a potential way to affordably improve the water quality and quality of life for the 1.1 billion people living in developing countries who do not have ready access to a safe water supply.

[[Water treatment]] (removal of impurities) and [[water purification]] (complete treatment as needed including disinfection, to ensure safety) is typically carried out in a large [[water treatment plant]] (WTP) which uses many processes inappropriate to the home scale. [[Activated sludge]], [[upflow anaerobic sludge blanket]] reactors, [[aeration tanks]] and other components require monitoring and [[maintenance]], [[appropriate]] for a [[centralized]] system but not for a [[decentralized]] system.

Cost may be more or less than centralized systems, depending on many factors. 


== Advantages ==

By processing after [[water supply|distribution]], point-of-use treatment avoids the possibility of contamination during distribution, e.g. through leaky pipes and below-atmospheric pressures in the pipes.<ref>E.g. in Indonesia it is very common to affix a pump to the water inlet. Standard "septic tanks" are not true septic tanks at all but have an earth floor, adding to [[groundwater]] contamination. Widespread use of pumps draws polluted groundwater into the pipes.</ref>

Less reliance on [[government]] or corporate services, which may be unreliable or under-resourced.


== Disadvantages ==

Maintenance is less likely to be carried out, eliminating many otherwise promising technologies.

== Examples ==

* [[Biosand filter]]
* [[LifeStraw]]
* [[Solar water disinfection]]
* [[Home slow sand filters]]
* [[Pot Filters (Ceramic Water Filters)]]

== Cost comparison ==

Mass production is an advantage to devices such as the LifeStraw.
{{expand}}, {{sp}}

Ceramic Pot filters use locally available materials and labor, and are one of the cheapest technologies available.
{{expand}}, {{sp}}

== Notes ==
<small><references/></small>


{{stub}}
[[Category:Distributed systems]]
[[Category:Water purification]]