We could get a vote going on the most revolutionary/effective/silliest ideas on Appropedia.

Re silliest - fun and controversial but may or may not be hurtful - could we mitigate that somehow?  This is not an excuse for incivility. Vote for something silly, no problem - but before getting too negative, ask yourself what you're contributing to the world of free knowledge.

Catchy nomination categories e.g. like the 3 news columns in mX, a free Sydney newspaper: Doom & gloom, Boring but important, & What in the weird.

== Content hunt ==

Another poll could be on the best content that someone finds for Appropedia. E.g.
* Best new page based on PD content found with [[Appropedia's Public Domain Search]]. (i.e. nominate filt so thay can be added to the poll.)* and would in that way help find striking material for inclusion.

*This might work as a content hunt as well, where kudos is given for finding the material - votes are given based on quality and need. i.e. filling an important gap in Appropedia's content.

Judging by community or small panel? (Don't want to be sending people off-site unnecessarily.)

Original idea suggested by Curt.

== Disclaimer ==

Don't take this too seriously! An opt-in poll won't tell you anything definitive. It will be sensationalist.

We do hope it will be fun, and shine a spotlight on some of the good (and not-so-good pages)

== Technical ==
Some kind of widget? Check these:

*[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&ct=res&cd=3&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwiki.wetpaint.com%2Fpage%2FWiki%2BWidgets&ei=qCb-R-CxJaLqhQOYm5iFCQ&usg=AFQjCNEP0QzeI8CuAfCFhfiYQlLMFovw7Q&sig2=-ih2174qXPN6GLDhE0ETxQ Wiki Widgets - Wiki]
*[http://www.widgetslab.com/2007/04/05/vizu-selected-to-provide-web-poll-widget-for-wetpaint-wiki-site-network/ Vizu Selected to Provide Web Poll Widget for WetPaint Wiki Site ...] (see also: [http://expressioncentersmb.wetpaint.com/page/How+to+Add+a+Poll How to Add a Poll - HP Small Business Community Wiki] & [http://expressioncentersmb.wetpaint.com/page/How+to+Add+a+Poll How to Add a Poll - HP Small Business Community Wiki])

[[Category:Appropedia site development]]