My name is Andreas Froese german but living and working in latinamerica
I invent to build using plastic bottles PET  to build houses water tanks and much more
More in my  http://www.eco-tecnologia.com


gpi.mit.edu - MIT Global Poverty Initiative -- check it out!



This page is a safe place to make your first edit.  Click on the '''edit''' tab above, or the '''edit''' link to the upper right of each section, and an edit window will open.  A series of tool buttons will be located above the edit window.  Moving your cursor over the buttons will offer "tool tips".  Fear not, you can click "back" or "cancel" to exit the edit window harmlessly, and if something actually goes wrong others can tidy up soon.

Some basic formatting examples (you'll see how they're done when you're in the edit window):

== The World's Least Expensive Commercial Biogas plant ==
Greenways farm, Eston KZN South Africa



My name is Shelby Tyne and I have designed and built the world's least expensive Biogas plant.  Actions speak louder than words.  So, please take 8 minutes out of your day and watch this video   http://www.facebook.com/video/video.php?v=7647443265&oid=6763501129    I will add more content soon

: you might put the video on youtube so we don't have to have a facebook account --[[User:David.reber|David.reber]] 10:32, 10 April 2008 (PDT)

== Feel free to type what you want below (or even above) here ==
''Hi, Mom!'' --[[User:Curtbeckmann|Curtbeckmann]] 07:28, 29 September 2006 (PDT)<br />
'''Hi Curt!'''--[[User:David.reber|David.reber]] 10:30, 10 April 2008 (PDT) (not Curt's mom)
<br />
''Hello,''--[[User:nghiep huynh.nth5]] everybody in engineering 115, Spring Semester will almost has finished, remember the Final Examination will commenced on Tuesday @10am in Science-B 133, do not be late and forgotten!''


== Ants and Aphids ==
Ants and aphids have a symbiotic relationship and are often found together on plants. Ants protect aphid eggs during the winter and then take them to a food source when they are born. As aphids eat, they secrete "honeydew," a sugary substance which the ants then suck out of them.

[http://www.richsoil.com/antsandaphids/ ants and aphids on my apple tree]
[http://science.jrank.org/pages/462/Aphids-Ants-aphids.html Aphids - Ants and Aphids]

[[Category:Sandbox]]