{{MOST}}
{{MOST-RepRap}}

=Introduction=
[[MOST]] performs tests to measure the energy required to produce a 3D print in units of kWh/kg, termed '''specific energy'''. This data is useful when performing economic and environmental [[life-cycle analysis]] of printed parts. See for example:
* [[Environmental life cycle analysis of distributed 3-D printing and conventional manufacturing of polymer products]]
* [[Environmental impacts of distributed manufacturing from 3-D printing of polymer components and products]]
* [[Life-cycle economic analysis of distributed manufacturing with open-source 3-D printers]]

Following is the protocol used for collecting this data.

=Equipment=
* [[RepRap]] 3D printer and host computer
* kW-hr monitor such as the commercial Kill-A-Watt power monitor (The precision of the Kill-A-Watt is around 0.01 kWh)
* Timepiece if printer host does not display print duration

=Method=
# Plug the power monitor into an outlet and plug the printer's power supply into it.
# Chose an open source digital design that will weigh more than 50g when printed. (Small prints can consume less than 0.01kWh.)
# Ensure heaters (hot end, heated bed, etc.) are at room temperature. 
# After slicing the model and just before printing it, record:
## print description
## nozzle diameter (mm)
## print T (C)
## heated bed T (C)
## print speed (mm/s)
## starting kWh
# Print the model.
# When the print is complete, record:
## ending kWh
## actual print time
## weight of the print (kg) see; [[Digital mass protocol:MOST]]

=Reporting=
# Calculate the energy consumed by subtracting the starting kWh reading from the ending kWh reading.
# Group the data by print speed and nozzle diameter.
# Create a scatter plot with power consumption (kWh) on the ordinate and printed part weight (kg) on the abscissa. A data series should be created for each group of print speed and nozzle diameter. For example, if one series of prints was performed at 60 mm/s with a 0.5mm nozzle and another at 30mm/s with a 0.5mm nozzle, two data series would be required.
# Add a trendlines to the plot and display the equations.
# Record the slope of the trendline(s) as the specific energy and the intercepts as warming and idle energy.

[[category:MOST methods]]
[[Category:3D printing]]
[[Category:Life cycle analysis]]