{{AAG manuals}}

These are questions that should guide your selection and execution of a project

==Choosing the Community and Project==
*How do community members make a living and what is life in the community like?
*Is there a commitment between both the team and the community to see the project through and maintain it afterwards?
*What resources does the community have (schools, clinics, electricity, water, latrines, internet)?
*How far must individuals travel for school and water collection?
*How are decisions made and are women involved in the local government?
*What is the phone number to the closest hospital to the community?
*Can local universities be involved?
*Is the country on the US-State department "do not travel" list?
*Where will the team stay?  How much will travel accommodations cost?
*What health hazards exist in the area (malaria, yellow fever)?
*How did this project arise and what work has been done before in the area?  
*Are there NGOs currently working in the area?
*Are foreigners welcome?
*When is the best time to go including holidays and weather?

==Researching the Location==
Check the following websites for information on your location
* [http://www.usaid.gov/locations/ USAID] has country plans for individual countries - though they can be a little hard to find
*[https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/ The CIA Factbook]  has encyclopedic information about every country
*[http://wikitravel.org/en/Main_Page Wiki Travel] Is a wiki for travel
*[http://www.lonelyplanet.com/ Lonely Planet] Has a lot of information for different countries
*[http://wwwn.cdc.gov/travel/ The CDC travel guide] has lots of information and good tools for travel health

==Researching the Project==
*Appropedia! just type your search into the search bar at the left
*[http://www.cd3wd.com/CD3WD_40/CD3WD/index.htm CD3WD] has a lot of technical information for almost any development project
*[[APDS|Appropedia's Google-based Public Domain Search Tool]] searches a lot of sources for open content information (perfect for [[porting]] to Appropedia)

==Project Questions==
*Will the project empower the citizens?
*How would these members be affected in terms of their economies, environments, culture and health?  
*What are the socio-economics affecting the project?
*Did the community request the project or is an organization forcing the project on the community?
*What is the scope of the project?
*Will education of the local community be necessary for the project to be successful?
*Once completed, could be duplicated by members of the community?
*How can potentially negative effects be avoided?
*Will the community take ownership of and maintain the project after it is completed?
*How much will the project cost? how will these costs be covered?  Is there a budget?
*Are the team members prepared for the cultural differences?
*Is there a translator on the team?
*What skills will your team need to complete the project?
*What alternate designs are possible?

===for buildings===
*Is the building site level and are there latrines, water, and electricity? 
*What construction materials are available to the community?
*Is the community willing to do a large part of the organizing and manual labor for the project?
*What construction techniques are in use in the community?

===for water projects===
*How far away and what is the elevation differences for freshwater sources?
*How high is the water table?  Is ground water potable?


[[Category:Projects]]
[[Category:Guides]]
[[Category:International development]]