Understanding '''human psychology''' is essential to promoting change in [[sustainability]], including positive responses to the challenge of [[climate change]], and in increasing rates of [[recycling]].

== Status ==

The desire and drive for status works against sustainability, as long as it is associated with greater consumption. 

In [[cultures]] and sub-cultures where [[waste]] is frowned upon, the opposite may apply - this is rare, however.

== Values and self-interest ==

A strong motivator for behavioral change is [[self-interest]], including financial. This is the reasoning behind a [[carbon price]] and other forms of pollutant pricing. 

In practice, a pollutant price has to be low enough to be politically acceptable, but high enough to either influence change or provide funds to effectively offset the emissions. Nhis has proven extremely difficult with carbon pricing as fierce opposition has arisen in the [[USA]] and [[Australia]], for example, to suggestions of even a modest price.

=== Community norms ===

{{references}}

A study/case study has been reported which found that signs encouraging recycling had a substantially different effect depending on the wording. "We recycle" resulted in a greater proportion of recycling compared to "Please recycle". It may be that "We recycle" was more inclusive and suggested a community norm, whereas "Please recycle" was an anonymous request which carried little weight.{{fact}}{{expand}} Results of such studies could be expected to vary according to community and language. 

=== Limitations of self-interest ===

A study has found that promoting a sustainable behavior based on self-transcending values (i.e. altruism) had spillover effects in other sustainable behaviors, compared to promoting the same behavior on the basis of self-interest.<ref>[http://www.guardian.co.uk/sustainable-business/strengthening-altruistic-values-change-behaviour How strengthening people's altruistic values can help change behaviour], ''Guardian Professional'', Adam Corner, 15 August 2012. <br>[http://www.nature.com/nclimate/journal/vaop/ncurrent/full/nclimate1662.html Self-interest and pro-environmental behaviour] by Evans, Maio, Corner, Hodgetts, Ahmed & Hahn  2012  ''Nature Climate Change'', doi:10.1038/nclimate1662</ref>

== Choice architecture ==

Decisions take effort, and with various pressing personal issues facing most individuals, hard decisions about environmental questions tend to be deferred or avoided. 

[[Choice architecture]]{{w|Choice architecture}} is the way in which choices are presented, and which defaults are used, in order to influence decisions. The concept has become better known through the book ''Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness''.<ref>''Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness'' by Richard H. Thaler and Cass R. Sunstein: [http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2527900.Nudge on GoodReads]; [[Wikipedia:Nudge (book)|on Wikipedia]].</ref>

For example:
* A company wishing to encourage its employees to support environmentally and socially positive business may choose an "ethical investment" fund as the employees' default retirement fund. 
* If company cars are essential, providing [[hybrid vehicles|hybrid]] or [[electric vehicles]] as the default option can be expected to increase the proportion of employees who choose that option.

== Notes and references ==
{{reflist}}

== See also ==

* [[Taking action]]
* [[Tragedy of the commons]]
* [[Ingredients of a successful commons]]
* [[Thrivability]]
* {{cl|Culture and community}}

== Interwiki links ==

* [[P2PFoundation: Roberto Verzola on Undermining vs. Developing Abundance #Ensuring against the failure of abundance]]:  "To manage abundance well, its community of beneficiaries must adopt a behavioral ruleset and the corresponding enforcement mechanisms. It is desirable to eventually turn this ruleset into a mindset"

== Interwiki links ==

* [[wikipedia:Conservation psychology]]
* [[wikipedia:Ecopsychology]]


[[Category:Psychology]]
[[Category:Sustainability]]