{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality, 
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa
|Image=PumaniCPAP.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) is a major cause of child mortality. It is often treated using bubble CPAP (bCPAP), but these devices can cost thousands of dollars and are too expensive for low-resource settings. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
This bCPAP technology uses low-cost aquarium pumps to generate continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP).  This keeps the infant’s lungs inflated, which allows them to breathe easier.  This technology can be sold for as low as $160, which an estimated maintenance of only 25 cents every two years (diaphragm replacement).

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Rice University students designed Pumani during their senior capstone project.  The project is being continued by Rice 360 and partners Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital, Baylor College of Medicine, and 3rd Stone Design.

*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location:

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital in Blantyre, Malawi

==Funding Source==
Finalist in Saving Lives at Birth Competition

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===

===Other internally generated reports===
Rice 360 Institute for Global Health Technologies. Bubble Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (bCPAP) Device in Malawi. Retreived December 3, 2013 from 
[http://rice360.rice.edu/bcpap here].	

===Externally generated reports===
Saving Lives at Birth. (2012). Low-Cost Respiratory Support: Reducing Early Neonatal Death in Malawi. Retrieved December 3, 2013 from [http://savinglivesatbirth.net/summaries/154 here].

Boyd, Jade. (October 1 2013). UN Features Rice’s Neonatal Breathing System. Rice University News & Media. Retrieved December 3, 2013 from [http://news.rice.edu/2013/10/01/un-features-rices-neonatal-breathing-system/ here].

Williams, Mike. (July 30 2012). Rice’s student-designed device to help babies breathe wins more support. Rice University News & Media. Retrieved December 3, 2013 from [http://news.rice.edu/2012/07/30/rices-student-designed-device-to-help-babies-breathe-wins-more-support-2/ here].

===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->