{{QASpage}}

[[Category:Queens Applied Sustainability Group Literature Reviews]]

Anis, W.R. & Abdulsadek Nour, M., 1994. Energy losses in photovoltaic systems. Journal of Power Sources, 51(3), 367-374.

Anis, W.R. & Nour, M.A., 1995. Energy losses in photovoltaic systems. Energy Conversion and Management, 36(11), 1107-1113.

Asl-Soleimani, E., Farhangi, S. & Zabihi, M.S., 2001. The effect of tilt angle, air pollution on performance of photovoltaic systems in Tehran. Renewable Energy, 24(3-4), 459-468.

Bany, J. & Appelbaum, J., 1987. The effect of shading on the design of a field of solar collectors. Solar Cells, 20(3), 201-228.

Burger, B. & Rüther, R., 2006. Inverter sizing of grid-connected photovoltaic systems in the light of local solar resource distribution characteristics and temperature. Solar Energy, 80(1), 32-45.

Cheng, C., Sanchez Jimenez, C.S. & Lee, M., 2009. Research of BIPV optimal tilted angle, use of latitude concept for south orientated plans. Renewable Energy, 34(6), 1644-1650.

Gajbert, H., Hall, M. & Karlsson, B., 2007. Optimisation of reflector and module geometries for stationary, low-concentrating, façade-integrated photovoltaic systems. Solar Energy Materials and Solar Cells, 91(19), 1788-1799.

Gong, X. & Kulkarni, M., 2005. Design optimization of a large scale rooftop photovoltaic system. Solar Energy, 78(3), 362-374.

Haq, A., 1982. Photovoltaics: Systems considerations. Solar Cells, 6(3), 317-322.

Hussein, H.M.S., Ahmad, G.E. & El-Ghetany, H.H., 2004. Performance evaluation of photovoltaic modules at different tilt angles and orientations. Energy Conversion and Management, 45(15-16), 2441-2452.

Jalayerian, M.K. & Burmeister, L.C., 1986. Solar flux enhancement on a tilted surface by a vertical south wall. Solar Energy, 36(5), 437-441.

Keller, L. & Affolter, P., 1995. Optimizing the panel area of a photovoltaic system in relation to the static inverter--Practical results. Solar Energy, 55(1), 1-7.

Kelly, N.A. & Gibson, T.L., 2009. Improved photovoltaic energy output for cloudy conditions with a solar tracking system. Solar Energy, 83(11), 2092-2102.

Kudish, A. & Ianetz, A., 1991. Evaluation of the relative ability of three models, the isotropic, klucher and hay, to predict the global radiation on a tilted surface in Beer Sheva, Israel. Energy Conversion and Management, 32(4), 387-394.

Mondol, J.D., Yohanis, Y.G. & Norton, B., 2007. The impact of array inclination and orientation on the performance of a grid-connected photovoltaic system. Renewable Energy, 32(1), 118-140.

Samimi, J., Soleimani, E.A. & Zabihi, M.S., 1997. Optimal sizing of photovoltaic systems in varied climates. Solar Energy, 60(2), 97-107.

Sidrach-de-Cardona, M. & López, L.M., Evaluation of a grid-connected photovoltaic system in southern Spain. Renewable Energy, 15(1-4), 527-530.

Sidrach-de-Cardona, M. & López, L.M., Evaluation of a grid-connected photovoltaic system in southern Spain. Renewable Energy, 15(1-4), 527-530.

Tonui, J. & Tripanagnostopoulos, Y., 2008. Performance improvement of PV/T solar collectors with natural air flow operation. Solar Energy, 82(1), 1-12.

Tsalides, P. & Thanailakis, A., 1985. Direct computation of the array optimum tilt angle in constant-tilt photovoltaic systems. Solar Cells, 14(1), 83-94.