{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Asia
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
In many low-income countries such as Bangladesh, the majority of deliveries are performed at home by a traditional birth attendant (TBA). These TBAs may or may not be properly trained in the diagnosis and treatment of post-partum hemorrhage (PPH), which is frequently the leading cause of maternal death.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Quaiyum Blood Mat is an absorbent mat to be placed under a woman during delivery that can absorb up to 500mL of blood. Blood travels across the mat at a constant velocity, allowing the TBA to visually evaluate blood loss. When the mat is saturated at 500mL, it will start to leak, which signals PPH.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Professor Dr. Md. Abdul Quaiyum, Chairman of the Department of Applied Chemistry and Chemical Technology at the University of Dhaka in Dhaka, Bangladesh
*Manufacturer location: The device was developed at the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research in Bangladesh (ICDDR,B).
 
==Funding Source==
Dr. Quaiyum is affiliated with the ICDDR,B in Bangladesh and received a grant from the Gates Grand Challenges competition in 2010.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Prata, N., Quaiyum, M. A., Passano, P., Bell, S., Bohl, D. D., Hossain, S., Begum, M. et al(2012). Training traditional birth attendants to use misoprostol and an absorbent delivery mat in home births. Social Science & Medicine.

===Other internally generated reports===
Judd, G. (2013). UN secretary-General Ban Ki-moon visits icddr,b. Link available [http://www.icddrb.org/media-centre/news/3955-un-secretary-general-ban-ki-moon-visits-icddrb here].

VSI. (2011). Scaling up of Misoprostol for Prevention of Postpartum Hemorrhage in 29 Upazilas of Bangladesh. PDF available [http://www.vsinnovations.org/assets/files/Program%20Briefs/ICDDRB_RDRS_VSI_Bixby%20Bang%20PPH%20Brief%202011%2005F%20Letter-size%20Compressed.pdf here].

===Externally generated reports===
Maternova. (2013, January 11). (Quaiyum) Blood Mat. Link available [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/quaiyum-blood-mat here].

===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->