{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Asia
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) occurs due to uncontrollable levels of blood glucose with onset or first recognition during pregnancy. This can cause several serious health problems for both mother and child, including the predisposition of Type 2 diabetes. The current tests in place to regulate glucose levels often demand fasting and multiple hours to complete, leading to low patient compliance.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Rapid Strip Assay (RDT) is meant to identify a new biomarker, glycated albumin, which can diagnose GDM within several minutes.  This allows a cheaper and faster method to determine if pregnant mothers or their babies will develop diabetes. Following the test, patients can be counseled on diet, exercise, further screening, or insulin ingestion based on the test results.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: PATH, University of Washington Laboratory of Medicine
*Manufacturer location: Seattle, Washington USA, India

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Project from 2011-2013, Seattle, WA USA and India

==Funding Source==
Health Innovation Portfolio, The Saving Life at Birth Consortium, Madras Diabetes Research Foundation 

==References==

===Other internally generated reports===
Path. Gestational Diabetes. Retrieved November 13 2013 from [http://sites.path.org/dx/ncd/gdm/ here].

Path. (July 2012). Rapid screening test for gestational diabetes. Retrieved November 13 2013 from [http://www.path.org/publications/files/TS_gdm_rst_pos.pdf here].
 
===Externally generated reports===
Saving Lives at Birth. (2011). Strip test for glycated albumin screening. Retrieved November 13 2013 from [http://savinglivesatbirth.net/summaries/209 here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->