Relocalization is a strategy which aims to rebuild societies based on the local provisioning of food and energy, and the relocalization of currency, governance and culture. The main goals of relocalization are to increase community energy security, strengthen local economies, and dramatically improve environmental conditions and social equity.

The strategy of relocalization was being developed and implemented by the [[Post Carbon Institute]], through a Relocalization Network website. More recently this initiative has moved to the [http://resilience.org/ Resilience website]. This Relocalization Network was composed of Local Post Carbon Groups from all over the world, working to prepare their communities for an energy constrained future. These groups are community-based, operating autonomously while receiving guidance, educational resources, and electronic infrastructure from the Institute. The Groups work within their communities in cooperation with local governments, businesses, non-governmental organizations (NGOS) and educational institutions to put the concept of relocalization into practice. Follow the link to the [http://resilience.org/ Resilience] website for more information about relocalization.

While working primarily within their communities, these groups also [[share knowledge]], experience, and educational resources with the all of the other groups within the global relocalization network. Local groups are experimenting with relocalization projects with the aim of developing viable solutions to the challenges of energy descent and climate disruption. All successes and failures are valuable contributions, helping the network develop a comprehensive relocalization strategy.


[http://www.postcarbon.org/ Postcarbon Institute]

[http://resilience.org Resilience]

[http://www-personal.umich.edu/~rdeyoung/ Localization Papers]

Also see: [http://www.appropedia.org/Localization Localization]

[[CATEGORY: Energy]]
[[CATEGORY: Food & Agriculture]]