'''[[Appropedia]]''' is a [[wiki]] for all questions of '''[[renewable energy]]''', including:

* [[Solar power]] 
** [[Solar hot water]]
** [[Photovoltaics]] (solar electricity)
** [[Solar thermal electricity]]
** [[Solar concentrators]] and dish/reflector design
** [[Solar cookers]]
** [[Solar water disinfection]]
** [[Passive solar design]]
* [[Wind power]]
* [[Hydroelectricity]] 
** [[Microhydro]]
** Picohydro (relevant to international development and remote locations with very modest energy needs).
* [[Wave power]]
* [[Tidal power]]

...and any other form of renewable energy. It also covers [[energy storage]], both high tech solutions that may (or may not) be suited to commercial and wealthy community solutions, as well as what is commonly called [[appropriate technology]] for smaller applications.

However, Appropedia is a more general '''[[green wiki]]''', on the basis of "[[wiki synergy]]," i.e. that [[sustainability]], [[design]] and [[international development]] issues overlap extensively and so are best dealt with on a single wiki. 

== Other wikis ==

Other wikis exist on this subject; only one appears to be not active.
* [[BioenergyWiki:|BioenergyWiki]] - active, specifically about [[bioenergy]].
* [[Green Powered Wiki]] - defunct
* [http://renewableenergy.wikia.com Renewable Energy Wikia] - little or no activity.
* [http://www.embark.com.au/ Embark Community Energy Project Wiki] - Australian focused, designed for groups aiming to set up projects - some good content covering issues like governance, running public meetings, dealing with opposition.

Many introductory resources can be also be found on Wikipedia, starting at [[Wikipedia:Renewable energy]]. This is restricted to [[Wikipedia]]'s criteria, and does not include designs, how tos, or original analysis.

{{call to collaboration}}

== See also ==

* [[Solar wiki]]
* [[Appropedia:About]]
* [[Green wikis and development wikis]]

[[Category:Renewable energy]]
[[Category:Wikis for sustainability]]