{{QASpage}}

Project Description:
[[Renewable energy policy in the north]]
<br>Finished Publications:
[[Technical feasibility of renewable electricity generation in Nunavut]]
For nomadic reindeer herders see: [[Technical viability of mobile solar photovoltaic systems for indigenous nomadic communities in northern latitudes]]

=====Nunavut Geography=====

1. Government of Nunavut, 2002. [http://www.gov.nu.ca/english/about/NU%20map.pdf "Map of Nunavut"].

* Map of Nunavut
* Shows the 26 communities in Nunavut

=====Nunavut Population/Community (all of these papers will be critical for my background section on Nunavut)=====

1. Government of Nunavut, 2008. [http://www.gov.nu.ca/english/about/Nunavut%20Communities%20Jan%2008.pdf "Nunavut Communities"]. 

Description of the 26 communities in Nunavut. Brief explanation of what kind of community each one is, and a bit of a historical background.


2. Government of Nunavut, 2008. [http://www.gov.nu.ca/english/about/Nunavut%20a%20chronological%20history-Feb%2008.pdf "Chronological History"].

Timeline of the growth and development of Nunavut.


3. Government of Nunavut, 2008. [http://www.gov.nu.ca/english/about/symbols.shtml "Symbols of Nunavut"].

Description of the Nunavut flag and coat of arms.


4. Government of Nunavut, 2009. [http://www.gov.nu.ca/english/about/ourland.pdf "Our Land"]. 

Background information on Nunavut.


5. Government of Nunavut, 2009. [http://www.gov.nu.ca/english/about/cg.pdf "Consensus Government"].

Background information on the Government of Nunavut.


6. Government of Nunavut, 2009. [http://www.gov.nu.ca/english/about/eco.pdf "The Economy"].

Background information on the Nunavut economy.


7. Government of Nunavut, 2009. [http://www.gov.nu.ca/english/about/build.pdf "Building on our strengths: Infrastructure"].

Background information on Nunavut's infrastructure.


8. Government of Nunavut, 2009. [http://www.gov.nu.ca/english/about/hr.pdf "Human Resources"].

Background information on the work force, employment, etc in Nunavut.


9. Government of Nunavut, 2008. [http://www.gov.nu.ca/english/about/newvision%20Jan%2008.pdf "Nunavut: A new government, a new vision"].

Background information on Nunavut.


10. Legare, A., 2002. Nunavut: The Construction of a Regional Collective Identity in the Canadian Arctic. Wicazosa Review.

=====Diesel=====
======Background======
======Health Assessment======
======Environmental Impacts (Ground, water, air)======

======Social Impacts======
======Economic Impacts======

=====Renewable Energy Sources (solar, wind, hydro, tidal, biomass)=====

===Policy Section===


=====Renewable Energy Policy=====

1. INAC, 2009. [http://www.ainc-inac.gc.ca/enr/clc/cen/pubs/shar/shar-eng.asp#chp17 "Sharing the Story: Aboriginal and Northern Energy Experiences by the Government of Canada"] Government of Canada. <br />
There is a section on solar energy and three case studies of Aboriginal communities. Among them include one in Nunavut which involved solar panels being used in some of the coldest weather conditions.


2. INAC, 2008. [http://www.ainc-inac.gc.ca/enr/clc/cen/ss/wha-eng.asp "Community Energy Plan for Wha Ti by the Government of Canada"] Government of Canada. <br />
*Description of the community energy plan in Wha Ti
*Installed hydro power, solar panels 


3. Fartaj, A., Islam, M., Ting, D.S.K., 2004. [http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=ArticleURL&_udi=B6VMY-4BKGCH8-1&_user=10&_coverDate=12%2F31%2F2004&_rdoc=1&_fmt=high&_orig=search&_sort=d&_docanchor=&view=c&_searchStrId=1283452950&_rerunOrigin=scholar.google&_acct=C000050221&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=10&md5=9361d236264da85c30a624be073aa05d "Current utilization and future prospects of emerging renewable energy applications in Canada"] Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 8(6), 493-519. <br />

*Overview of the different renewable energy uses in Canada
*Discusses how the territorial/provincial/federal policy is created and works together for renewables
*Discusses some barriers to renewable energy policy in Canada - can extrapolate to Nunavut


4. St. Denisa, G., Parkerb, P., 2009. [http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=ArticleURL&_udi=B6VMY-4V1DJN1-2&_user=10&_coverDate=10%2F31%2F2009&_rdoc=1&_fmt=high&_orig=search&_sort=d&_docanchor=&view=c&_searchStrId=1283460778&_rerunOrigin=scholar.google&_acct=C000050221&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=10&md5=4d70c6851f243d721f3bd77d925b2aca "Community energy planning in Canada: The role of renewable energy"] Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 13(8), 2088-2095.

* At the community level, change is being driven by a desire to  reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to become more energy self-sufficient
* Three stages of community planning: 1) initial planning process-investigate how the community approaches the planning of a community energy plan (CEP) 2) plan dynamics-considered how the plans were designed to function, discover the goals of each community, the desired economic, environment and social benefits, and GHG emissions reduction targets 3) demand and supply-investigated the details of the energy plan in terms of the community's relative focus on the demand side or the supply side of the energy system
* 10 communities (3 in NWT, 1 in Yukon)
* Good tables showing which of the 10 communities had an energy plan using different techs (solar, wind, hydro...)


5. Loukacheva, N., 2009. [http://www.springerlink.com/content/v5j83056v35287j9/ "Climate Change Policy in the Arctic: The Cases of Greenland and Nunavut"] Environment and Policy, 50, 1-24. <br />
*Overview of climate change and the arctic - impacts
*Discusses climate change policy in Nunavut - section on renewable energy and fossil fuel use
*Discussion of how the ICC fits into the picture - may or may not be useful for my paper


6. Duerden, F., Ford, D., Furgal, C., Pearce, T., Smit, B., 2010. [http://www.uoguelph.ca/gecg/images/userimages/Ford%20et%20al.%20(2010)_GEC.pdf "Climate change policy responses for Canada’s Inuit population: The importance of and opportunities for adaptation"] Global Environmental Change. 20, 177-191. <br />
*Social, economic, and demographic characteristics of Inuit communities in Canada often mirror those in developing nations (Table 1). Communities are challenged by limited access to health services, low socio-economic status, high unemployment, crowded and poor-quality housing, concerns regarding basic services such as drinking water quality and sanitation, and low educational achievement
* Mentions permafrost thaw - can you then consider geothermal??
* Reducing emissions in Arctic communities could also have significant pollution and health benefits.
* (Ford et al., 2009), and all Inuit settlements are powered by polluting diesel generators.
*Good map of Nunavut


7. St. Denisa, G., Parker, P., 2009. Community energy planning in Canada: The role of renewable energy. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 13(8): 2088-2095.

*Not very relevant to this project since most communities won't be planning the transition
*May be useful to look at how we can engage communities to take part


8.''' Government of Nunavut, 2007. [http://www.gov.nu.ca/documents/energy/energystrategy.pdf "The Government of Nunavut Energy Strategy"].''' 
* '''Extremely useful paper - almost all of it'''
*Details about fuel use for electricity in Nunavut
*Details about the plan to integrate new renewable energy and energy efficiency programs



9.  '''Government of Nunavut, 2007. [http://www.gov.nu.ca/documents/energy/Sustainable%20Energy.pdf "A discussion paper for Ikumatit].'''
*The Government of Nunavut (GN) pays approvimately 80% of the Territory's energy bill
*To be sustainable the energy system must be affordable, secure, environmentally responsible, increase the use of renewable and domestic energy resources, and optimize the economic benefits for Nunavummiut.
*Successfully implemented, it will enable the government and Nunavummiut to better manage Nunavut’s growth and use incentives more than subsidies to encourage conservation.
*'''Inuit Qaujimjatuqangit principles'''
*Nunavut uses imported fossil fuels to generate electricity, heat its buildings and transport its goods and citizens. The fossil fuels are shipped in bulk to Nunavut during the short, open-water shipping season and stored in facilities in each community. Local storage imposes environmental risks from leaks and spillage and finite storage capacity poses an energy security risk.
*The Government of Nunavut, through its Petroleum Products Division (PPD), purchases all of the Territory’s fossil fuel. In 2006, PPD spent about $130 million to purchase 165 million litres of fossil fuel. Forty percent of this fuel was used to transport people and goods, 33 percent heated buildings and 27 percent generated electricity (Figure 1).
*In 2006, PPD sold 44 million litres of fossil fuel to Qulliq Energy Corporation (QEC) to generate electricity. This represents 27 percent of all of the fossil fuel purchased by the Government of Nunavut. There are significant subsidies and transfer payments associated with the sale of electricity. Approximately 49 percent of QEC’s revenue is collected through revenue transfers from “related parties” such as the GN. In 2006, 43 percent of electricity sales were to residential customers, 32 percent to commercial customers, and 25 percent to the Government of Nunavut.
*the plant uses about 35 percent of the thermal energy in the diesel fuel to produce electrical energy. The balance of energy in the fuel is dissipated into the atmosphere in the form of heat. QEC uses residual heat from the generation process in several locations for heating the plant, offices and neighbouring buildings.
*Hydro Electric Power: Iqaluit represents the largest potential market to reduce diesel consumption and also provides the best economics to support hydro-electric development. QEC has conducted an analysis of potential hydro-electric generation sites to serve Iqaluit. In time, other communities will also be evaluated.
*Waste Heat Recovery: QEC has district heating systems in Rankin Inlet and Iqaluit, which will save 2.3 million litres of fuel and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 6,000 Tonnes of CO2eq. Other community projects await funding.
* Wind Energy: wind turbines were first installed in Nunavut in 1988. Although wind power is not utilized commercially in Nunavut today, wind turbine and control technology is improving with the rapid expansion of the use of wind energy around the world and winddiesel systems are in use in Newfoundland, Antarctica, Scandinavia and Alaska.
*'''SECTION ON SUBSIDIES!!!!!'''


10. '''INAC, 2010. [http://www.ecoaction.gc.ca/ecoenergy-ecoenergie/aborignorth-autochnord-eng.cfm "ecoENERGY for Aboriginal and Northern Communities"]. '''

*Overview of the program
*Discussion of what they are trying to do, how to do it, who can take part


11. Pembina Institute, 2007. [http://communities.pembina.org/partners/aboriginal "Sustainable Communities: Aboriginal Communities"]. 

Aboriginal communities are becoming increasingly involved in planning for their energy needs, including managing their energy demand and developing local energy supplies. The drivers for their involvement in energy issues include interests or concerns regarding<br />
*energy price volatility<br />
*reliability of energy supplies<br />
*local job creation<br />
*harvesting a renewable local resource<br />
*responding and adapting to climate change<br />
*reducing the environmental impacts of energy use<br />


12. Qullik Energy Corporation, 2007. Iqaluit Hydro-Electric Project. Status Report.

*Presentation by the QEC about the project
*Opportunities of the project are discussed: jobs, economics
*Geography and specs of the project
*Environmental assessment
*Action plan of the project


13. [http://www.ravimobiles.com/ Valentine], S.V., 2010. [http://journals1.scholarsportal.info/tmp/2458069391368781078.pdf "Canada’s constitutionalseparationof(wind)power"]. Energy Policy, 38: 1918–1930.

*Breakdown of renewable technologies by Province - interesting facts about Nunavut in there



14. http://www.north.gc.ca/mr/nr/cannor-10-022bk-eng.asp

===Background: Community and the Environment===


=====Aboriginal Communities and Sustainability=====

1. Furgal, C., Seguin, J., 2009. [http://ehp03.niehs.nih.gov/article/fetchArticle.action?articleURI=info:doi/10.1289/ehp.8433 "Climate change, health, and vulnerability in Canadian northern Aboriginal communities"] Environmental Health Perspectives, 114(12), 1964-1970.
Canada has recognized that Aboriginal and northern communities in the country face unique challenges and that there is a need to expand the assessment of vulnerabilities to climate change to include these communities. Evidence suggests that Canada’s North is already experiencing significant changes in its climate—changes that are having negative impacts on the lives of Aboriginal people living in these regions. Research on climate change and health impacts in northern Canada thus far has brought together Aboriginal community members, government representatives, and researchers and is charting new territory.
In this article we review experiences from two projects that have taken a community-based dialogue approach to identifying and assessing the effects of and vulnerability to climate change and the impact on the health in two Inuit regions of the Canadian Arctic.
The results of the two case projects that we present argue for a multi-stakeholder, participatory framework for assessment that supports the necessary analysis, understanding, and enhancement of capabilities of local areas to respond and adapt to the health impacts at the local level.

===Technical Feasibility Section===

=====Storage=====

1. Isherwood, W., Smith, J.R., Aceves, S.M., Berry, G., Clark, W., Johnson, R., Das, D., Goering, D., Seifert, R., 2000. Remote power systems with advanced storage technologies for Alaskan villages. Energy, 25(10): 1005-1020.

This paper presents an analytical optimization of a remote power system for a hypothetical Alaskan village. The analysis considers the potential of generating renewable energy (e.g., wind and solar), along with the possibility of using energy storage to take full advantage of the intermittent renewable sources available to these villages. Storage in the form of either compressed hydrogen or zinc pellets can then provide electricity from hydrogen or zinc–air fuel cells whenever wind or sunlight are low. The renewable system is added on to the existing generation system, which is based on diesel engines. Results indicate that significant reductions in fossil fuel consumption in these remote communities are cost effective using renewable energy combined with advanced energy storage devices. A hybrid energy system for the hypothetical village can reduce consumption of diesel fuel by about 50% with annual cost savings of about 30% by adding wind turbines to the existing diesel generators. Adding energy storage devices can further reduce fuel use, and depending on the economic conditions potentially reduce life-cycle costs. With optimized energy storage, use of the diesel gensets can be reduced to almost zero, with the existing equipment only maintained for added reliability. However, about one quarter of the original fuel is still used for heating purposes.



=====Hydro Power=====

1. Parti, R., 1978. [http://journals2.scholarsportal.info/tmp/17474387927151785717.pdf "Power from glaciers: the hydropower potential of Greenland's glacial waters"]. 
Energy, 3 (5): 543-573.

Could be applied to Canada<br />
In the southern parts of Greenland, large quantities of water melting every summer from the ice shield 1000 m above sea level and more, within a short distance from the coast, offer favorable conditions for a large-scale hydropower development. General ideas on such a development have been published by several authors. This report tries to go a step further by providing an assessment of available resources, an analysis of technical problems for the utilization of this resource and its integration into a global energy system, and a preliminary estimate of construction needs and costs.


2. Rosenberg, D.M., Bodaly, A., Usher, P.J., 1995. Environmental and social impacts of large scale hydroelectric development: who is listening? Global Environmental Change, 5(2): 127-148.

The most often heard claims in support of large scale hydroelectric development are: (1) hydropower generation is ‘clean’, (2) water flowing freely to the ocean is ‘wasted’, and (3) local residents (usually aboriginals) will benefit from the development. These three claims are critically examined using case histories from Canada and elsewhere in the world. The critique is based mainly on journal articles and books, material that is readily available to the public, and reveals that the three claims cannot be supported by fact. Nevertheless, large scale hydroelectric development continues on a worldwide basis. The public needs to be well informed about the environmental and social consequences of large scale hydroelectric development in order to narrow the gap between its wishes for environmental protection and what is really occurring.


3. Yanity, B.B., 2007. [http://www.confmanager.com/communities/c680/files/hidden/Papers/Ren-08,YanityAESMicrohydroPaper.pdf "Cold Climate Problems of a Micro-Hydroelectric Development on Crow Creek, Alaska"]. The Arctic Energy Summit. Anchorage, Alaska.

Abstract—A micro-scale hydroelectric plant has been proposed for Crow Creek, a mountain stream located in an off-grid area of the Chugach Range near Girdwood, Alaska. The run-of-river plant design has an expected generation capacity of 125 kW, and could power up to thirty homes and displace polluting diesel generation. The cold-climate hydrology and thermal regime of the stream are crucial in the design of hydroelectric plants in sub-Arctic regions. Solutions for intake ice problems discussed include the inducement of ice cover formation, deep submergence of hydraulic intake works, mechanical ice removal, and even trashrack heating. Also discussed are the physical characteristics of penstocks, the burial and insulation of penstocks to prevent ice blockage, and frazil ice problems. The cold-climate problems of the stream will not preclude micro-hydropower development, but the Crow Creek site demands special design considerations and maintenance procedures.


4. Banke, N., Carina, E., Keskitalo, H., Koivurova,T., 2009. [http://www.springerlink.com/content/m242218u0807pr48/fulltext.pdf "Mitigation Possibilities in the Energy
Sector – An Arctic Perspective"]. Climate Governance in the North, pp. 1-24.

Describes the possibility of hydropower and water generated power in the Arctic.

=====Diesel in Remote Northern/Aboriginal Communities=====

Holden, A., 2001. [http://202.14.81.230/house/committee/jfadt/Enterprise/subs/EASub20.pdf "ABORIGINAL AND TORRES STRAIT ISLANDER COMMISSION"] Report to the Joint Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Trade, Trade Sub-Committee Enquiry, 30 April, 2001. <br />

1. Appropriate renewable hybrid power systems for the remote aboriginal communities by Stephanie Jennings, John Healey<br />
Renewable power supply systems have been a natural choice for many of Australia's small remote aboriginal communities where the costs of diesel fuel are high. The results have been mixed. This is partially due to design factors, but more importantly due to community acceptance of these technologically complex systems and the maintenance arrangements with the community power station operators and local resource agencies. This paper looks at some of the issues to consider in the selection, design, installation and maintenance of appropriate hybrid power stations for smaller remote aboriginal communities. 


2. CIER, 2009. [http://www.cier.ca/assets/0/32/50/52/98/16E61FA2-DAFE-4FFB-B860-7B50A2CEF9DF.pdf "CLIMATE RISKS AND ADAPTIVE CAPACITY IN ABORIGINAL COMMUNITIES FINAL REPORT"] Commissioned report to Indian and Northern Affairs. <br />
This document reports on the first year of a proposed three-year project to understand the
potential consequences and challenges of climate change for Aboriginal communities south of
60º latitude. It is hoped that this report and subsequent outcomes of the project will help to
point the way to how such communities may be better enabled and assisted to cope with both
the expected and unexpected challenges that lie ahead.

=====Wind Energy=====


1. Seifert, H., Tammelin, B., 2001. [http://www.dewi.de/dewi/fileadmin/pdf/publications/Publikations/seifert_ewec2001_icing.pdf "LARGE WIND TURBINES GO INTO COLD CLIMATE REGIONS"] EWEC, Copenhagen. <br />
Cold climate and severe icing problems have to be faced when erecting wind turbines at mountainous or hilly
inland sites at regions like northern Spain, Apennines in Italy, Southern France, Alps, mountainous areas in Germany,
Scotland, large regions in the eastern Europe and the Nordic countries. Similar conditions at sites with good wind conditions
will be also found in other regions and at other continents. Low air temperature and especially icing conditions create new
demands for the design of wind turbines and their components, and also to wind energy assessment. Theoretical models have
been produced to calculate e.g. loads and power production under icing conditions, and blade heating systems and ice free
sensors are now available. However, well documented demonstrations and verifications of results achieved are still missing.
They are urgently needed to increase and improve the exploitation of wind energy at cold climate regions


2. Ilinca, A., Pinard, J.P., Weisa, T.M., 2008. [http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=ArticleURL&_udi=B6V2W-4S02THN-2&_user=10&_coverDate=05%2F31%2F2008&_rdoc=1&_fmt=high&_orig=search&_sort=d&_docanchor=&view=c&_searchStrId=1283418895&_rerunOrigin=google&_acct=C000050221&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=10&md5=b5921ab0d0129735e5f10bde877039f1 "Stakeholders’ perspectives on barriers to remote wind–diesel power plants in Canada"] Energy Policy, 36(5), 1611-1621.<br />
Canada has been experimenting with wind–diesel hybrid systems for its remote communities for over 25 years with limited success.
This paper discusses the results of a year-long survey that was distributed to stakeholders in wind–diesel systems in remote Canadian
communities. These stakeholders include utilities, wind energy technology manufacturers, project developers, researchers, and
governments. The analysis shows that there is a strong agreement that capital and operating costs are the most significant barriers to the
implementation of wind–diesel systems and that direct project financial incentives, notably production and capital cost incentives
designed to reduce these costs are perceived as the most effective way to encourage development. There is a notable disagreement
between utilities and governments on one hand, who are split as to the current technical viability of wind–diesel systems, and
manufacturers, developers, and researchers on the other, who overwhelmingly believe that wind–diesel systems are mature enough for
remote applications.


3. Baring-Gould, I., Holttinen, H., Horbaty, R., Laakso, Lacroix, A., Peltola, E., Ronsten, G., Tallhaur, L., Tammelin, B., 2009. [http://arcticwind.vtt.fi/reports/StateOfTheArtOfColdClimate2009.pdf "State-of-the-art of wind energy cold climates"]. Commissioned report to the IEA.<br /> 
Wind turbines in cold climates refer to sites that have either icing events or low temperatures outside the operational limits of standard wind turbines. International Energy Agency, IEA R&D Wind has started a new annex, Wind Energy in Cold Climates. This is an international collaboration on gathering and providing information about wind turbine icing and low temperature operation. The goal is to monitor reliability of standard and adapted technology and establish guidelines for applying wind power in cold climates. In this report, the state-of-the-art of arctic wind energy is presented: knowledge on climatic conditions and resources, technical solutions in use and operational experience of wind turbines in cold climates.


4. Ilinca, A., Weisa, T.M., 2008. [http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=ArticleURL&_udi=B6V4S-4R05J2P-2&_user=10&_coverDate=07%2F31%2F2008&_rdoc=1&_fmt=high&_orig=search&_sort=d&_docanchor=&view=c&_searchStrId=1283431267&_rerunOrigin=google&_acct=C000050221&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=10&md5=3196bedc78f233fe178c684d4cd4083f "The utility of energy storage to improve the economics of wind–diesel power plants in Canada"] Renewable Energy, 33(7), 1544-1557. <br />
Wind energy systems have been considered for Canada’s remote communities in order to reduce their costs and dependence on diesel
fuel to generate electricity. Given the high capital costs, low-penetration wind–diesel systems have been typically found not to be
economic. High-penetration wind–diesel systems have the benefit of increased economies of scale, and displacing significant amounts of
diesel fuel, but have the disadvantage of not being able to capture all of the electricity that is generated when the wind turbines operate at
rated capacity.
Two representative models of typical remote Canadian communities were created using HOMER, an NREL micro-power simulator to
model how a generic energy storage system could help improve the economics of a high-penetration wind–diesel system. Key variables
that affect the optimum system are average annual wind speed, cost of diesel fuel, installed cost of storage and a storage systems overall
efficiency. At an avoided cost of diesel fuel of 0.30 $Cdn/kWh and current installed costs, wind generators are suitable in remote
Canadian communities only when an average annual wind speed of at least 6.0 m/s is present. Wind energy storage systems become viable
to consider when average annual wind speeds approach 7.0 m/s, if the installed cost of the storage system is less than 1000 $Cdn/kW and
it is capable of achieving at least a 75% overall energy conversion efficiency. In such cases, energy storage system can enable an
additional 50% of electricity from wind turbines to be delivered.


5. Guha, S., Kar, N.C., Soloumah, H.M., 2005. [http://multi-science.metapress.com/content/u637108784946t47/ "Status of and prospect for wind power generation in Canada"] Wind Engineering, 29(3), 253-270.<br />
Increasing environmental concerns and decreasing stocks of fossil fuels encourage wind power generation worldwide. In Canada, being consistent with the world wide growth, wind power is growing at an impressive rate as a potential energy source. This paper investigates the status and prospects of wind power development in Canada. Currently, Canada has an installed wind power capacity of 444 MW and the target is to reach the 4,000 MW mark by 2010 to meet the Canadian Government's commitment to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. Federal and provincial governments are encouraging the application of wind power by implementing different policies and programs. Some of these policies are discussed in this paper. In this article, a few key issues which the country has to overcome in order to utilize the significant untapped wind energy available have been discussed along with their possible solutions.


6. Maissan, J.F., 2001. [http://yukonenergy.ca/downloads/db/45_final_wind_paper.pdf "WIND POWER DEVELOPMENT IN
SUB-ARCTIC CONDITIONS WITH SEVERE RIME ICING"] Circumpolar Climate Change Summit and Exposition: Whitehorse, Yukon. <br />
Discussion of wind energy in the North.


7. Vasil'ev, V.A., Saparov, M.I.,  Tarnizhevskii, B.V., 2005. [http://journals1.scholarsportal.info/tmp/12114141662563899531.pdf "Possibilities of Use and Promising Layouts of Power Plants Employing Renewable Energy Sources in Arctic Regions of Russia"]. Power Technology and Engineering, 39 (5): 308-311.

Possible volumes of the use of renewable energy sources in arctic regions of Russia are considered. With allowance
for the climatic conditions and local consumers it is the most expedient to built wind-driven power
plants in combination with diesels. Places of possible erection and capacities of wind-diesel plants with total
output of 95 MW are presented. This will make it possible to reduce considerably the delivery of expensive
diesel fuel (by 106,000 tons coal equivalent a year). The expected investment is estimated at 3.9 billion rubles.


8. Ibrahim, H., Younès, R., Ilinca, A., Dimitrova, M., Perron, J., 2010. Study and design of a hybrid wind–diesel-compressed air energy storage system for remote areas. Applied Energy, 87(5): 1749-1762.

Remote areas around the world predominantly rely on diesel-powered generators for their electricity supply, a relatively expensive and inefficient technology that is responsible for the emission of 1.2 million tons of greenhouse gas (GHG) annually, only in Canada [1]. Wind–diesel hybrid systems (WDS) with various penetration rates have been experimented to reduce diesel consumption of the generators. After having experimented wind–dieselhybrid systems (WDS) that used various penetration rates, we turned our focus to that the re-engineering of existing diesel power plants can be achieved most efficiently, in terms of cost and diesel consumption, through the introduction of high penetration wind systems combined with compressed air energy storage (CAES). This article compares the available technical alternatives to supercharge the diesel that was used in this high penetration wind–dieselsystem with compressed air storage (WDCAS), in order to identify the one that optimizes its cost and performances. The technical characteristics and performances of the best candidate technology are subsequently assessed at different working regimes in order to evaluate the varying effects on the system. Finally, a specific WDCAS system with diesel engine downsizing is explored. This proposed design, that requires the repowering of existing facilities, leads to heightened diesel power output, increased engine lifetime and efficiency and to the reduction of fuel consumption and GHG emissions, in addition to savings on maintenance and replacement cost.


9. Ilinca, A., Weis, T.M., 2008. The utility of energy storage to improve the economics of wind–diesel power plants in Canada. Renewable Energy, 33(7): 1544-1557.

Wind energy systems have been considered for Canada's remote communities in order to reduce their costs and dependence on diesel fuel to generate electricity. Given the high capital costs, low-penetration wind–diesel systems have been typically found not to be economic. High-penetration wind–diesel systems have the benefit of increased economies of scale, and displacing significant amounts of diesel fuel, but have the disadvantage of not being able to capture all of the electricity that is generated when the wind turbines operate at rated capacity.
Two representative models of typical remote Canadian communities were created using HOMER, an NREL micro-power simulator to model how a generic energy storage system could help improve the economics of a high-penetration wind–diesel system. Key variables that affect the optimum system are average annual wind speed, cost of diesel fuel, installed cost of storage and a storage systems overall efficiency. At an avoided cost of diesel fuel of 0.30 $Cdn/kWh and current installed costs, wind generators are suitable in remote Canadian communities only when an average annual wind speed of at least 6.0 m/s is present. Wind energy storage systems become viable to consider when average annual wind speeds approach 7.0 m/s, if the installed cost of the storage system is less than 1000 $Cdn/kW and it is capable of achieving at least a 75% overall energy conversion efficiency. In such cases, energy storage system can enable an additional 50% of electricity from wind turbines to be delivered.

=====Solar Energy=====


1. OPA, 2007. [http://www.powerauthority.on.ca/Storage/39/3479_Conservation_progress_report_February_2007.pdf "A Progress Report on Electricity Conservation"] Commissioned report by the OPA. <br />
Ontario has a long-term conservation target to achieve 6,300 megawatts (MW) of peak electricity
demand reduction by 2025. Interim targets include a reduction in peak demand of 1,350 MW by
2010. The OPA’s approach in achieving the targets set for 2010 and 2025 is to use three
overlapping but distinct types of conservation programs: resource acquisition, capability building
and market transformation. This report focuses on resource acquisition or conservation
procurement.


2. Brown, C., Guichard, A., Lyons, D., 1996. [http://www.linux.aq/publications/bwea96.pdf "ANALYSIS OF THE POTENTIAL FOR WIND AND SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS IN ANTARCTICA"] Institute of Antarctic and Southern Ocean Studies. <br />
As renewable energy generation devices become more
efficient and less expensive, the market for providing power
to remote communities is expanding. Power for these sites
is usually provided by diesel generator sets although, with
high winds or solar radiation levels, wind-turbines and solar
arrays could prove an ideal alternative. This is especially
true for Antarctica.
The Australian Antarctic Division currently ships
approximately 750,000 litres of diesel fuel annually to each
of three continental stations located on the coastline of East
Antarctica. These operations are expensive and savings
could be expected from the introduction of a renewable
energy generation capability. These stations experience
strong winds with gusts recorded at up to 81 m/s, together
with temperatures often plunging below -30oC in winter.
This, while providing adequate meteorological conditions
for power generation by wind-turbines, also imposes harsh
design criteria. Solar also remains an extremely promising
alternative during the summer, but is not viable for the
winter.
As part of a project investigating 'Alternative Energy for
Antarctic Stations', analysis of meteorological data has
given wind energy capacity factors estimates of up to 0.7,
and summer solar energy capacity factors estimates of up to
0.3. These, combined with station load measurements,
have been used to determine the optimal sizing of the
number and ratio of wind/solar to storage devices. Results
indicate that installation of a 110 kW wind turbine capacity
at Mawson would result in a 25% fuel saving, while a 55
kW wind turbine capacity at Macquarie Island would reduce
fuel consumption by 30%.


3. Dell, R.M., Rand, D.A.J., 2001. [http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=ArticleURL&_udi=B6TH1-44CVXGT-2&_user=10&_coverDate=11%2F30%2F2001&_rdoc=1&_fmt=high&_orig=search&_sort=d&_docanchor=&view=c&_searchStrId=1283442453&_rerunOrigin=google&_acct=C000050221&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=10&md5=28e861135fe798509b9643a14e77fdd1 "Energy storage — a key technology for global energy sustainability"] Journal of Power Sources, 100(1-2), 2-17. <br />
The quality of life today is dependent upon access to a bountiful supply of cheap energy. For a sustainable future, the energy should be
derived from non-fossil sources; ideally, it should also be reliable and safe, flexible in use, affordable, and limitless. This paper examines the
present global use of energy in its various forms, and considers projections for the year 2020 with particular attention to the harnessing of
‘clean’ and renewable forms of energy for electricity generation and road transportation. The incorporation of renewables is constrained in
many instances by the variable and intermittent nature of their output. This calls for the practical application of energy-storage systems. An
evaluation is made of the prospects of the candidate storage technologies — pumped-hydro, flywheels, hydrogen (for use in fuel cells),
batteries — for application in centralized and distributed electricity supplies, and in electric and hybrid electric vehicles. The discussion
concludes with the developments foreseen over the next 20 years.


4. Poissant, Y., Thevenard, D., Turcotte, D., 2004. [http://canmetenergy-canmetenergie.nrcan-rncan.gc.ca/fichier.php/codectec/En/2004-114/2004-114e.pdf "PERFORMANCE MONITORING OF THE NUNAVUT ARCTIC COLLEGE PV SYSTEM: NINE YEARS OF RELIABLE ELECTRICITY GENERATION"] Commissioned Report to INAC. <br />
A 3.2 kWp grid-connected photovoltaic (PV) system was installed on the façade of the Nunavut
Arctic College, Nunatta Campus in Iqaluit, Nunavut (63.4 °N) in 1995. The project has two main
objectives: to gain experience in the construction, monitoring and maintenance of a northern gridconnected
PV system, and to serve as a demonstrator of the use of PV in the far North. This paper
summarizes nine years of monitoring results. The monitored data includes current from the PV array,
array voltage, AC power delivered, horizontal and vertical irradiances (both measured with LiCor and
Eppley pyranometers), ambient temperature, and array temperature. Climatic and solar radiation
conditions at the site are reviewed, and the performance of the system is assessed from a component
perspective (PV array, power conditioning unit) and from a global perspective (system efficiency,
reliability, annual yield and performance ratio). The system has delivered on average 2,016 ± 200 kWh of
electricity on an annual basis with no interruption of delivery. Thus, the system has demonstrated with
success the reliability of grid-connected photovoltaics for the far North.


5. Dignard-Bailey, L., Martel, S., Ross, M.M.D., [http://www.rerinfo.ca/documents/artVienna1998PVNorth.pdf "PHOTOVOLTAICS FOR THE NORTH: A CANADIAN PROGRAM"] Commissioned Report. <br />
Large seasonal variations in solar radiation and other adverse climatic factors have made the implementation
of PV technologies challenging in Canada, especially in the North; however, through the development of new technologies
adapted to cold climates and the development of expertise in this field, this challenge is being met. This paper reports on the
experience and results of PV for the North, a Canadian program that started in 1993 in response to a need for PV systems
better adapted to harsh arctic conditions and information on the technology. This five year program was initiated by the
CANMET Energy Diversification Research Laboratory (CERDL), the Aurora Research Institute and the Nunavut Research
Institute to address the various issues of importance in the particular context of Canada’s north. The achievements of this
program have been reached because of its complete range of activities: from market assessment to product development, to
demonstration systems and information dissemination.


6. Martel, S., Les Kutny, D., Troke, S., 1998. [http://canmetenergy-canmetenergie.nrcan-rncan.gc.ca/fichier.php/codectec/Fr/1998-18-54/1998-18-54e.pdf "Photovoltaics for the North: Five Years of Breaking Down Barriers in the Northwest Territories"] Commissioned Report. <br />

Description of various photovoltaic programs that have taken place in the North - including PV for the North.


7. McKenney, D.W., Pelland, S., Poissant, Y., Morris, R., Hutchinson, M., Papadopol, P., Lawrence, K., Campbell, C., 2008. [http://journals1.scholarsportal.info/tmp/13673590299079977760.pdf "Spatial insolation models for photovoltaic energy in Canada"]. Solar Energy, 82 (11): 1049-1061.<br />

Spatial models of global insolation and photovoltaic electricity generation potential for Canada were developed. The main objective was to provide Canadians with an easily accessible, reliable tool for rapidly estimating the monthly and yearly electricity production potential of grid-connected photovoltaic systems anywhere in the country, and for assessing the dependence of production on location, time of year and array orientation. Monthly mean daily insolation data from 144 meteorological stations across Canada were used, along with data from an additional eight stations in Alaska to improve the models in that region. Several photovoltaic array orientations were considered, including South-facing arrays with latitude and vertical tilts and a sun-tracking orientation. Partial thin plate smoothing splines as implemented in ANUSPLIN were used to generate the spatial insolation models. The models were based on geographic position and a transform of monthly mean precipitation, the latter variable being a surrogate for cloudiness which affects surface insolation. Photovoltaic electricity generation (in kWh per kilowatt of photovoltaic installed power capacity) was estimated for each month and for the entire year from the insolation models by assuming international standard values for the performance ratio of photovoltaic systems. The yearly average root mean square predictive error (RTGCV) on the mean daily global insolation ranges between 0.75 (vertical tilt) and 1.43MJ/m2 (sun-tracking orientation) (or about 4.7–9.0kWh/kW in terms of PV potential), or from 5.6% to 6.9% of the mean. Ultimately insolation and photovoltaic potential were mapped over the country at a 300 arc seconds (∼10km) resolution. The maps are available on a Natural Resources Canada Website. This is an important new tool to help Canadians gain an overall perspective of Canada’s photovoltaic potential, and allow estimation of potential photovoltaic system electricity production at any chosen location.


8. Usher, E.,  Jeana, G., Howell, G., 1994. The use of photovoltaics in a northern climate. Solar Energy Materials and Solar Cells, 34(1-4): 73-81.

Although the electricity rates paid by most Canadians are low, they are considerably higher in remote regions where electricity is usually diesel generated. In these regions, photovoltaic (PV) systems have proven to be an optimal power source for many small off-grid applications, and are soon expected to be cost-effective on remote community diesel grids. However, to use PV in Canada's northern climate, systems must be designed to withstand large seasonal fluctuations in solar radiation and an often harsh environment. Within the PV industry, new technologies and greater expertise have helped to overcome these barriers, especially those directly related to Canadian niche markets. This paper discusses the use of PV in the context of the northern Canadian climate and presents operational data on systems currently in use.


9. Poissant, Y., Thevenard, D., Turcotte, D., 2004. [http://canmetenergy-canmetenergie.nrcan-rncan.gc.ca/fichier.php/codectec/En/2004-114/2004-114e.pdf "Performance monitoring of the Nunavut Arctic College PV system: nine years of reliable electricity generation"]. Report by Natural Resource Canada. 

A 3.2 kWp grid-connected photovoltaic (PV) system was installed on the façade of the Nunavut
Arctic College, Nunatta Campus in Iqaluit, Nunavut (63.4 °N) in 1995. The project has two main
objectives: to gain experience in the construction, monitoring and maintenance of a northern gridconnected
PV system, and to serve as a demonstrator of the use of PV in the far North. This paper
summarizes nine years of monitoring results. The monitored data includes current from the PV array,
array voltage, AC power delivered, horizontal and vertical irradiances (both measured with LiCor and
Eppley pyranometers), ambient temperature, and array temperature. Climatic and solar radiation
conditions at the site are reviewed, and the performance of the system is assessed from a component
perspective (PV array, power conditioning unit) and from a global perspective (system efficiency,
reliability, annual yield and performance ratio). The system has delivered on average 2,016 ± 200 kWh of
electricity on an annual basis with no interruption of delivery. Thus, the system has demonstrated with
success the reliability of grid-connected photovoltaics for the far North.

=====Climate Change in the North=====

1. Ford, J.D., 2009. [http://journals1.scholarsportal.info/tmp/1305470526489492329.pdf "Dangerous climate change and the importance of adaptation for the Arctic’s Inuit population"]. Environmental Resource Letters, 4.<br />
The Arctic’s climate is changing rapidly, to the extent that ‘dangerous’ climate change as
defined by the United Nations Framework on Climate Change might already be occurring.
These changes are having implications for the Arctic’s Inuit population and are being
exacerbated by the dependence of Inuit on biophysical resources for livelihoods and the low
socio-economic–health status of many northern communities. Given the nature of current
climate change and projections of a rapidly warming Arctic, climate policy assumes a particular
importance for Inuit regions. This paper argues that efforts to stabilize and reduce greenhouse
gas emissions are urgent if we are to avoid runaway climate change in the Arctic, but unlikely to
prevent changes which will be dangerous for Inuit. In this context, a new policy discourse on
climate change is required for Arctic regions—one that focuses on adaptation. The paper
demonstrates that states with Inuit populations and the international community in general has
obligations to assist Inuit to adapt to climate change through international human rights and
climate change treaties. However, the adaptation deficit, in terms of what we know and what we
need to know to facilitate successful adaptation, is particularly large in an Arctic context and
limiting the ability to develop response options. Moreover, adaptation as an option of response
to climate change is still marginal in policy negotiations and Inuit political actors have been
slow to argue the need for adaptation assistance. A new focus on adaptation in both policy
negotiations and scientific research is needed to enhance Inuit resilience and reduce
vulnerability in a rapidly changing climate.


=====Tidal Power=====

1. Rourke, F.O., Boyle, F., Reynolds, A., 2009. Tidal Energy Update 2009. Applied Energy, 87(2): 398-409.

Tidal energy has the potential to play a valuable part in a sustainable energy future. It is an extremely predictable energy source, depending only on the gravitational pull of the moon and the sun and the centrifugal forces created by the rotation of the earth–moon system. Tidal energy has been exploited on a significant scale since the construction of the La Rance tidal barrage in France in 1967. A tidal barrage utilises the potential energy of the tide and has proven to be very successful, despite opposition from environmental groups. Kinetic energy can also be harnessed from tidal currents to generate electricity and involves the use of a tidal current turbine. This is the more desired method of capturing the energy in the tides. However, tidal current turbine technology is currently not economically viable on a large scale, as it is still in an early stage of development. This paper provides an up-to-date review of the status of tidal energy technology and identifies some of the key barriers challenging the development of tidal energy. The future development of tidal current devices and tidal barrage systems is discussed as well as examining the importance of a supportive policy to assist development.


2. Grabbe, M., Lalandera, E., Lundina, S., Leiion, M., 2009. A review of the tidal current energy resource in Norway. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 13(8): 1898-1909.

As interest in renewable energy sources is steadily on the rise, tidal current energy is receiving more and more attention from politicans, industrialists, and academics. In this article, the conditions for and potential of tidal currents as an energy resource in Norway are reviewed. There having been a relatively small amount of academic work published in this particular field, closely related topics such as the energy situation in Norway in general, the oceanography of the Norwegian coastline, and numerical models of tidal currents in Norwegian waters are also examined. Two published tidal energy resource assessments are reviewed and compared to a desktop study made specifically for this review based on available data in pilot books. The argument is made that tidal current energy ought to be an important option for Norway in terms of renewable energy.



====Hybrid Micro-Grid====

1. Nelson, V., Starcher, K., Foster, R., Clark, R., Raubenheimer, D., 2002. [http://solar.nmsu.edu/publications/wind_hybrid_nrel.pdf "Wind Hybrid Systems Technology Characterization"]. Technical report, Southwest Technology Development Institute, New Mexico State University.

2. Johnson, D.A., 2009. [http://www.wise.uwaterloo.ca/pdf/ISTP-India-Oct09/Johnson_Oct09_Delhi.pdf "WIND-DIESEL-STORAGE MICRO GRID PROJECT AT KASABONIKA LAKE FIRST NATION"]. <br />
Discusses the possibility of hybrid micro-grid in Northern Ontario

3. Ragheb, M., 2009. [https://netfiles.uiuc.edu/mragheb/www/NPRE%20475%20Wind%20Power%20Systems/Small%20Wind%20Generators.pdf "Small Wind Generators"].<br />
Discusses small scale wind and how it compares to diesel.

====Past Solar Initiatives in First Nation Communities====

'''T'Sou-ke Nation Photovoltaic Demonstration Project'''

http://www.tsoukenation.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/08/SolarBookletProof.pdf

http://www.ainc-inac.gc.ca/ai/scr/bc/fnbc/sucsty/arhve/2009/su09sshtske-eng.asp


[[Category:Queens Applied Sustainability Group Literature Reviews]]