{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Europe
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
The World Health Organization estimates that 1 million babies out of 15 million cases, die annually due to preterm birth and about 7% of all pregnant mothers in developing countries give birth prematurely. Preventative measures are not widely taken in these areas because there hasn’t been successful ways of early preterm labor identification.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The simple, non-invasive test detects signs of premature labor in pregnant mothers through their saliva. Research shows that a hormone, progesterone, in the saliva is irregularly low in women going into preterm labor. Detecting progesterone levels in pregnant mothers allows for doctors to identify women with high risk of premature birth and to treat accordingly. 

==Designed by==
*Designed by: University College London, King’s College London
*Manufacturer location: United Kingdom

==Funding Source==
King’s College, Tommy’s Charity

==References==

===Externally generated reports===
Maternal and Neonatal Directed Assessment of Technology. (2013). Saliva Test for Preterm Labor. Retrieved November 13 2013 from [http://mnhtech.org/technology/technologies-in-development/saliva-test-for-preterm-labor/ here].

BJOG: An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology. (July 22 2009). Saliva test to identify women at risk of delivering early. Retrieved November 13 2013 from [http://www.bjog.org/details/news/280455/Saliva_test_to_identify_women_at_risk_of_delivering_early.html here]. 

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->