{{JMC330inprogress|May 15, 2011}}

Sao Paulo, Brazil has announced it will add 50 ethanol buses in its attempt to modernize and move towards sustainable transportation. Mayor Gilberto Kassab said the buses, made by Scania, will begin running in May 2011.


== Taking a cue from Curitiba ==

[[Curitiba transportation]] was one of the first cities in Brazil to be recognized for achievement in efficient, low emission mass transit. Brazil is considered a leader in the [[biofuel]] industry, largely because it has the agricultural resources to produce massive amounts of ethanol.

== World Stage ==

With Brazil hosting the World Cup in 2014, infrastructure and building projects are flying into production. Some are already coming under fire for lack of foresight, but Sao Paulo, with other urban Brazilian areas, is making an effort to have a smooth running transit system.

Sao Paulo's goal is to have their entire bus line - around 15,000 vehicles - running on ethanol by 2018. 

== Concerns ==

Biofuel is still a debated topic, and some groups are cautious about its adoption. Most biofuel comes from soy and sugar cane, two crops that have historically been closely associated with deforestation of the Amazon. The Joint Nature Conservation Committee released a statement saying that - despite benefits - adoption of biofuels might have the following effects:

Degradation of valuable habitats.
Intensification of agriculture.
The release of carbon from land use changes.
Displaced food production.
Unregulated use of genetically modified stock.


== External Links ==
[http://www.smartconnectedcommunities.org/docs/DOC-1541 Sustainable Transport for World Cup 2014]

[http://www.jncc.gov.uk/pdf/2007_positionstatement_Biofuel_nov07.pdf Joint Nature Conservation Committee Transport Biofuels and Biodiversity Statement]

[http://www.eeac-net.org/bodies/uk/uk_jncc.htm Joint Nature Conservation Committee Web site]

[http://green.autoblog.com/2010/12/04/sao-paulo-public-transit-to-add-50-scania-ethanol-fueled-buses-t/ Scania Press Release]


[[Category:JMC330 International Mass Communication]]
[[Category:Transport]]
[[Category:Biofuel]]
[[Category:Sustainable cities]]

[[Category:JMC330 International Mass Communication]]