'''Drawn Butter.'''

Half pint of boiling water, 2 teaspoonful of flour, and 2 ounces of butter. Mix the flour and butter together until they are perfectly smooth. Stir this into the boiling water, and add salt to taste. If made with milk in place of water, leas butter will answer.

'''Common Sauce.'''

Soak slices of veal, ham, onions, parsnips, 2 doves of garlic, 2 heads of cloves, then add broth, a glass of white wine, and 2 slices of lemon; simmer it over a slow fire, skim it well, and sift it.

'''Miser’s Sauce.'''

Chop 5 or 6 large onions, mix a little verjuice, or vinegar, pepper, salt, and a little butter; serve it up either warm or cold.

'''Parson’s Sauce.'''

Chop lemon-peel very fine, with 2 or 3 pickled cucumbers, a bit of butter, salt, and coarse pepper, a little flour, with 2 spoonful of catsup, and stew it on the fire without boiling.

'''Nonpareil Sauce.'''

Take a slice of boiled ham, as much breast of roasted fowl, a pickled cucumber, a hard yolk of an egg, one anchovy, a little parsley, and a bend of shallot, chopped very fine; boil it a moment in good catsup, and use it for meat or fish.

'''Nivernoise Sauce.'''

Put in a smell stewpan a couple of slices of ham, a clove of garlic, 2 cloves, a laurel-leaf, sliced onions, and roots; let it catch the fire a little. Then add a small quantity of broth, 2 spoonful of catsup, and a spoonful of the best vinegar. Simmer it for an hour on the side of the stove, then sift it in a sieve, and serve it for a high flavored sauce.

'''Gravy Cakes.'''

Chop 2 legs of beef in pieces, put them into a pot of water, stew it over a slow fire a day and a night; then add onions, herbs, and spices as for gravy; continue stewing it till the meat is off the bones, and the gravy quite out; then strain the liquor into a milk-pan, to which quantity it should be reduced; when cold, take off the fat, put it into a saucepan, and add whatever is required to flavor it; simmer it on a slow fire till reduced to about 12 saucers twothirds full, put them in an airy place till as dry as leather, put them in paper bags, and keep in a dry place.

'''Sailor’s Sauce.'''

Chop a fowl’s liver with a or 3 shallots, and a couple of truffles or mushrooms; simmer these in a spoonful of oil, 2 or 3 spoonful of gravy, a glass of wine, a little salt and coarse pepper, simmer it about half an hour, and skim it very well before using.

'''Queen’s Sauce'''

Simmer crumbs of bread in good gravy, until it is quite thick, take it off the fire, and add a few sweet almonds pounded, 2 hard yolks of eggs, and a breast of fowl roasted, all pounded very fine; boil a sufficient quantity of cream to your sauce, and sift all together, then add pepper and salt, and warm it without boiling.

'''Tomato Catsup.'''

Boil tomatoes, full ripe, in their juice, to neatly the consistence of a pulp, pass them through a hair sieve, and add salt to the taste. Aromatize it sufficiently with clove, pepper, and nutmegs.

'''Catsup for Sea-stores.'''

Take a gallon of strong stale beer, a pound of anchovies washed from the pickle, the same of shallots peeled, 1/2 an ounce of mace, 1/2 an ounce of cloves, 1/4 of an ounce of whole pepper 3 or 4 large races of ginger, and 2 quarts of large mushroom flaps, rubbed to pieces. Cover these close, and let it simmer till half wasted. Then strain it through a flannel bag; let it stand till quite cold, and then bottle it. This may be carried to any part of the world; and a spoonful of it to a pound of fresh butter melted, will make a fine fish sauce, or will supply the place of gravy sauce. The stronger and staler the beer the better will be the catsup.

'''Another.''' - 

Chop 24 anchovies, having first boned them; put to them 10 shallots cut small, and a handful of scraped horse-radish, 1/4 of an ounce of mace, a quart of white wine, a pint of water, and the same quantity of red wine, a lemon cut into slices, 1/2 a pint of anchovy liquor, 12 cloves, and the same number of peppercorns. Boil them together till it comes to a quart, then strain it off cover it close, and keep it in a cold dry place. Two spoonful of it will be sufficient for a pound of better. It is a good sauce for boiled fowls, or, in the room of gravy lowering it with hot water, and thickening it with a piece of butter rolled in flour.

'''Fish Sauce.'''

Take 1 pound of anchovies, a quart of claret, of a pint of white wine vinegar, 1/2 an ounce of cloves and mace, 2 rages of ginger sliced, a little black pepper, the peel of a lemon, a piece of horseradish, a large onion, a bunch of thyme and savory; set all these over a slow fire to simmer an hour, then strain it through a sieve; when cold put it in a bottle with the spice, but not the herbs. To a large coffeecupful cold, put a pound of butter; stir it over the fire till it is as thick as cream; shake the bottle when used, and put no water to the butter.

'''Cream Sauce for a Hare.'''

Run the cream over the hare or venison just before frothing it, and catch it in a dish; boil it up with the yolks of two eggs, some onion, and a piece of butter rolled in flour and salt. Half a pint of cream is the proportion for two eggs.

'''Apple Sauce.'''

Pare and core tart apples, cut them in slices, rinse and put them in an earthen stewpan, set them on the fire, do not stir them until they burst and are done: mash them with a spoon, and when perfectly cool sweeten with white sugar to taste.

'''Sweet Sauce.'''

Mix 2 glasses of red wine, one of vinegar, 3 teaspoonful of cullis, a bit of sugar, 1 sliced onion, a little cinnamon, and a laurel-leaf; boil them a quarter of an hour.

'''Nun’s Butter.'''

Four ounces of butter, six ounces of sugar; as much wine as the butter will take. Beat the butter and sugar together, and gradually add the wine and a little nutmeg.

'''Brown Sauce.'''

Mix together one tablespoonful of moist sugar, two of French vinegar, three of salad oil, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, some pepper and salt, end serve.

== See also ==

== External links ==

[[Category:DIY]]

[[Category:Household Cyclopedia]]