{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Sensingstrip.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Pre-eclampsia and eclampsia are two leading causes of maternal death in low-resource settings.  Both conditions are difficult to diagnose.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This low-cost, solar-powered sensing strip will detect the early presence of pre-eclampsia or eclampsia. The skin of the strip is composed of flexible polymers and carbon-based materials. The strip will create an electrical current change when biomarkers indicating the presence of eclampsia are detected.

==Describe its relevance for resource-constrained settings==
This technology is specifically designed for use in developing countries due to its low cost and the fact that it is powered by solar energy.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Professor Zhenan Bao, a Chemical Engineering professor at Stanford University.
*The Bao Research website available [http://baogroup.stanford.edu/zbao here].
 
==Funding Source==
Funding is provided by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.

==References==
===Other internally generated reports===
Bergeron, Louis. (2011). Stanford Researcher's New Stretchable Solar Cells Will Power Artificial Electronic 'Super Skin.' Photonics Online.  Link available [http://www.photonicsonline.com/article.mvc/Stanford-Researchers-New-Stretchable-Solar-0001?atc~c=771+s=773+r=001+l=a here].

===Externally generated reports===
Pre-eclamspia sensing strip. (n.d.). Maternal and Neonatal Directerd Assessment of Technology. Link available [http://www.mnhtech.org/technology/technologies-in-development/pre-eclampsia-sensing-strip/ here].