'''Sepp Holzer''' is a well known permaculturalist whose work is well documented.{{fact}} He developed his style independently from mainstream [[permaculture]], on his family's property in the [[Austria]]n Alps in the early 1960s. As with the permaculture pioneered by [[Bill Mollison]] and [[David Holmgren]], he focused on observing and following [[ecological]] patterns. In his youth he began experimenting informally with native plants.

He refers to his methods and pratice as "'''Holzer Permaculture'''" (German: "'''Holzer'sche Permakultur'''") as opposed to "[[Permaculture]]" ''per se''. This might be something to do with the tendency of people to say "you can't do that because that isn't permaculture." By saying that what he is doing is "Holzer Permaculture" then he can do what he thinks is best without having to address about the infinite interpretations of the books of others.{{fact}}

== Characteristics ==

Aspects of "Holzer Permaculture" include:
* a focus on the needs of gardening in a [[cold climate]], raising temperatures and creating [[micro-climates]] with rocks, ponds and living [[wind barriers]].
* use of [[animal labor]], e.g. using pigs to plow his fields for sowing.
* An extreme use of [[intercropping]] method, mixing 30 or more different types of [[seeds]] in a bucket and scattering them.
* The use of [[hugelkultur]] a form of extreme raised beds incorporating wood in the bottom.

== See also == 

* [[Bill Mollison]] 

== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:Holzer Permaculture]]

== External links ==

* [http://www.seppholzer.at/ SeppHolzer.at] - Official website
* [http://www.richsoil.com/sepp-holzer/sepp-holzer-permaculture.jsp Sepp Holzer's Permaculture] - includes practical advice heard from Holzer, with pictures and video.
* [http://www.permies.com/permaculture-forums/4714_0/permaculture/broadcasting-seed-mixes-sepp-holzer-style-or-otherwise Broadcasting Seed mixes- Sepp Holzer style or otherwise] - ''permies.com''
* [http://www.richsoil.com/permaculture/166-podcast-016-maddy-harland-of-permaculture-magazine/ Maddy Harland and Paul Wheaton] - podcast on Sepp Holzer's work in desert Portugal, as well as his (and other well-appreciated permaculturists') books
* [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OWQsgTD3ifY Paul Wheaton's Eco Scale] a youtube where Paul Wheaton uses Sepp Holzer as a "10" on his "Eco Scale"
* [http://www.permies.com/permaculture-forums/1443_0#msg82397 Brief video on Sepp Holzer's animal shelters]
* [http://www.permies.com/t/2413 Forum Topic on Sepp Holzer]
 
{{stub}}

[[Category:Permaculture]]
[[Category:People]]