{{mergeto|shelter}}

This is a stub page for a survey of temporary and emergency shelters, and the  construction techniques for these.  Some of the designs listed use non-sustainable plastic, but are listed to help stimulate similar design approaches using more sustainable material.

== Appropedia Articles ==
* [[:Category:Hexayurt project]] - The Hexayurt Category has lots of articles on Appropedia documenting Hexayurt shelters.  Here is a good [http://ecolocalizer.com/2008/11/30/emergency-shelter-design/ construction video].

* [[Structural Insulated Panels]] - a stub for use of structural insulated panels for temporary shelter construction.

* [[Innovative_Sheltering_1_-_Bamboo_and_Ferro-cement_for_emergency_shelter]] - shelter created from organic fiber reinforced with with mud or cement.  This article contains some good sketch notes that need more work to be a helpful guide.

* [[ShelterBox Relief Tent]] - Appropedia stub article.  The shelter box is parachuted in to disaster area and includes a tent and emergency supplies.  See also  [[STAR-TIDES Shelter]], an Appropedia stub article.  

* [[Construction techniques]] - a few topics here such as bamboo construction will be helpful when considering temporary shelter design.

* [[Demo Camp Units]] - this article describes briefly and illustrates the use of bamboo rods and wire connectors (needs more detail on the wire connectors) to build vertical display banners, but also this technique can be used to build temporary tents and shelters.

== External links ==
* [https://www.expertsure.com/2008/11/30/emergency-shelter-design/ $200 Emergency Shelter] - 

* [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TDKDOMd7i0Y Doug Patt's Shelter Kit] - consists of fabric roof, reusable plastic panels.  No tools or fasteners required.  This is youtube video.  Apparently no other web information is currently available.

* [http://www.gvshelters.com/index.html Global Village Shelters] - self-contained kit, rigid walls and roof, material used is polypropylene profile sheets.

[[Category:Construction]]