== Steps ==
1st Step: Drill holes in the bottom of two of the three plastic boxes.  Roughly, 2 inches apart all over.

2nd Step: Place plastic box with no holes on the bottom and two with holes inside each other on top.

3rd Step: Get newspaper wet and rip into strips, spread this inside the top box.

4th Step: Chop up scrap food and place on top of wet newspaper.

5th Step: Add worms!

Wait 1-2 Weeks

6th Step: Let the worms adjust to their new environment for at least one week, then begin adding more compost.

7th Step: Once top bin fills, switch the middle bin with holes with the top, full bin.  Now you should have 
on the top the empty bin with holes, then the full bin with holes, and the bottom should have the 
bin with no holes.

8th Step: The worms will move freely through the holes, once the middle bin has been decomposed it is ready to
harvest.

9th Step: Add fresh compost to soil by mixing it in and watering.  If you are adding it to soil that already 
has a plant then spread the compost on the top of soil and water to allow nutrients to pass downward through
the soil.

10th Step: Watch plants grow and enjoy the food!!

== Tips ==
*The best things to feed your worms are green leafy vegetables.  Other types of vegetables are also good.
*Bread should be torn.
*Need Red Worms not earthworms they desire to be left in the earth and will escape from the bin
*Temperature should range between 45-85 degrees Fahrenheit.  Best is in the 60's.

== Warnings ==
'''*DON'T ADD MEAT, DAIRY, OR CITRUS!!'''

== Things You Need ==
*Three plastic boxes, about 13"-8"-5" is a good size (ACE hardware-$1.50 each)
*Electric Drill 
*1/8" drill bit
*Red Worms (manure worms)  
*Newspaper 
*Scrap food: Leafy greens are best

== Sources and Citations ==
Pictures will be coming soon!!

== Troubleshooting ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Problem
! Causes
! Solution

|-
| Worms Are Dead, 
| Too Dry
| Add Water to Bin
|-
| ------
| Too Hot
| Add Less Food
|-
| ------
| Material Too Dense
| Add More Shredded Newspaper
|-
| Worms not Eating Fast enough
| Not Enough Worms
| Add Less Food/ Get a Larger Bin
|-
| Too Many Flies
| ------
| Add Thin Layer of Soil or Ash to Surface
|-
| Smelly
| Too Wet
| Don't Add Liquids/ Add Shredded Newspaper
|}

[[Category:How tos]]
[[Category:Vermiculture]]