{{TOCright}}
==About Us==
Few business-related organizations carry the prominence or the sway of the [http://www.svlg.org Silicon Valley Leadership Group] (SVLG). Founded in 1977 by David Packard, SVLG has grown to become the largest organization of its kind in Silicon Valley. Today SVLG has more than 200 member companies. Economically, SVLG has become a cornerstone of the Valley; collectively, its members contribute more than $1 trillion to the global economy, an amount equal to the gross national product of Italy.

Members of the SVLG constitute a substantial portion of the area’s economic engine. Combined, SVLG member companies:

* Employ more than 250,000 people in the Valley, who constitute one-fourth of the entire private sector workforce in the region.
* Generate more than $1 trillion worth of business, which is approximately eight times as large as California’s entire state budget, and represents a significant contribution to the state and the national government treasuries, along with hefty property taxes for local governments.
* Span several state and federal legislative districts, including those of 14 assembly districts, 8 state senate districts, and 6 congressional districts.

==Mission==
The Silicon Valley Leadership Group (SVLG) is organized to involve principal officers and senior managers of member companies in a cooperative effort with local, regional, state, and federal government officials to address major public policy issues affecting the economic health and quality of life in Silicon Valley.

==Vision==
It is SVLG’s vision to ensure the economic health and a high quality of life in Silicon Valley for our entire community by advocating for adequate affordable housing, comprehensive regional transportation, reliable energy, a quality K-12 and higher education system and prepared workforce, a sustainable environment, and business and tax policies that keep California and Silicon Valley competitive.

==History==
In the summer of 1977, David Packard asked a number of his fellow CEOs to join him in creating a proactive voice for Silicon Valley businesses. The result was the formation of the Silicon Valley Manufacturing Group (SVMG), which has successfully tackled some of the toughest challenges facing high-tech employers and their employees.

SVLG was founded on the premise that local employers should be actively involved in working with government to find innovative solutions to issues like transportation, housing, permit streamlining, education, and the environment.

In March 2005, SVMG changed its name to Silicon Valley Leadership Group (SVLG) to better reflect the work of the organization. As of December 2005, SVLG represents more than 200 of the Silicon Valley's most respected employers. SVLG members collectively provide nearly 250,000 local jobs, or one of every four private sector jobs in Silicon Valley.

Membership is open to Silicon Valley firms and supporting industries including software, systems, manufacturing, financial services, accounting, transportation, health care, defense, communications, education and utilities.
[[Category:Organizations]]