==Instructions==
Heat up 3/4 Cup of Oil of Your Choice in the microwave with 2 teaspoons of [[Steric Acid]] and 1 teaspoon of [[Emulsifying Wax]] until melted. In a separate plastic bowl with a pour mouth preferably, heat up 1/2 cup of water of your choice (such as rainwater) in the microwave with a 1/2 teaspoon of [[Borax]] until boiling hot.

Then use the same plastic pour mouth bowl you boiled the water in and slowly whip in the oil mixture with a hand blender. Keep mixing until fairly cool. At this time, you can add Vitamin-E oil, a little color, fragrance, whatever you consider great stuff! When the lotion seems well mixed, pour into lotion bottles.

==Variations==

Once you get the chemistry down, the interplay is wide open. You can use green tea instead of water or rainwater, or water infused with whatever herb you like. On the oil side, you can soak the oils in elements such as we do with bee pollen, strain and then use for the oil part. The possibilities are endless and these variations also apply to Cremes below. For those with Eczema or Psoriasis, adding 10% of [[Pine tar]] at the mixing stage may help them tremendously. In that case, I would use [[Castor oil]] as my oil of choice. You can offset the smell of pine tar with cinnamon or nutmeg.


===ULTRA RICH SKIN CREAM===

* 2½ oz (weight) [[beeswax]]
* 4 ounces (weight) anhydrous [[lanolin]]
* 2/3 cup baby oil
* 1-teaspoon [[borax]]
* Fragrant essential oil (optional)

In a microwave or double boiler, melt the oil, lanolin and beeswax to 160 <sup>o</sup>F. Heat the borax and water in a separate container to 160 <sup>o</sup>F. Be sure the borax is dissolved and the wax is melted. Add the water mixture to the oil mixture while stirring briskly. When white cream forms, stir slowly until the mixture cools to 100 <sup>o</sup>F. Pour it into small wide mouth jars.

[[Category:How tos]]
[[Category:Herbal remedies]]
[[Category:Wellness]]