{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Waterborne diseases 
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Smartcholera.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Cholera continues to be a major cause of illness and death in developing countries, especially in post-natural disaster or post-conflict settings. In these settings, laboratory diagnosis of cholera may not be possible due to lack of electricity and trained personnel. Timely diagnosis is essential for appropriate treatment.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The SMART II Cholera O1 test is a rapid diagnostic test that detects Vibrio cholerae-specific antigens within a human fecal sample. It can be performed in about 15 minutes, can be used by an unskilled technician, requires no electricity, and stores at room temperature.

==Relevance to developing country settings==
Cholera is almost exclusively limited to developing country settings. These tests were use in field trials in Bangladesh, Mexico, and Madagascar.

==Manufacturer==
*Manufacturer: New Horizons Diagnostics Corporation
*Manufacturer location: Columbia, Maryland USA
 
==Funding Source==
This device has funding from private sources.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
J A Hasan, A Huq, M L Tamplin, R J Siebeling and R R Colwell. (1994.) A novel kit for rapid detection of Vibrio cholerae O1. J. Clin. Microbiol., 32(1):249.  Link available [http://jcm.asm.org/content/32/1/249.full.pdf+html here].

Kalluri P, Naheed A, Rahman S, Ansaruzzaman M, Faruque AS, Bird M, et al. (2006). Evaluation of three rapid diagnostic tests for cholera: does the skill level of the technician matter?. Trop Med Int Health, 11(1), 49-55. Link available [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16398755 here].

Nato F, Boutonnier A, Rajerison M, Grosjean P, Dartevelle S, Guenole A et al. (2003.) One-step immunochromatographic dipstick tests for rapid detectrion of Vibrio cholerae O1 and O139 in stool samples. Clin Diagn Lab Immunol, 10(3), 476-478. Link available [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC154973/ here].

===Internally generated reports===
New Horizons Diagnostics Corporation. (2004). Cholera SMART II. PDF available [http://www.nhdiag.com/pdf/Cholera_O1_Smart_II_insert.pdf here].