__NOTOC__
{{Template:STAR TIDES header}}


'''We apologize but we no longer maintain this page.  Please visit us at [http://www.star-tides.net www.star-tides.net]'''

'''The following is kept for historical purposes only.''' 

The TIDES project will identify, test, refine, and document sets of rapidly transportable, cheap, and environmentally friendly infrastructures (basic shelter, water, power, hygiene, communications, etc.).  These sustainable infrastructures should be deployable quickly to meet human needs where available services are inadequate, such as in refugee camps or for disaster victims. It is a voluntary effort, with non-government, government, and diverse other participants, and in no way is an endorsement of any particular solution by the government. TIDES also will develop assembly instructions and operational procedures for these infrastructures. The goal is to share information to help organizations and individuals apply solutions effectively in real-world conditions.  Collaborative, cross-domain methods and new technologies, along with whole systems thinking and engineering are encouraged.

STAR-TIDES currently focuses on 7 infrastructures<br />
*[[STAR-TIDES Shelter|Shelter]]
*[[STAR-TIDES Water|Water]]
*[[STAR-TIDES Power|Power]]
*[[STAR-TIDES Cooking|Integrated Cooking]]
*[[STAR-TIDES Domestic Services|Heating/Cooling/Lighting]]
*[[STAR-TIDES Sanitation|Sanitation]]
*[[STAR-TIDES ICT|Information and Communication Technology]]
* as well as having activities in [[STAR-TIDES Policy|Policy]]
* and  [[STAR-TIDES Whole Systems|Whole Systems]] research

The STAR-TIDES technology documentation template is [[TIDES technology documentation template|here]].

We have also begun linking to Medical Support resources, although this is not one of the core STAR-TIDES infrastructures<br />
[http://project.star.tides.googlepages.com/Tides_PhaseOne_Full_Brief_9-22-07.ppt A powerpoint presentation explaining  much of the background of TIDES is available.]

Photos from the demonstration are available at:  http://metadata.solers.com.  These pictures have been metadata tagged using the Defense Discovery Metadata Standard (DDMS).  To see all pictures, enter TIDES.  Try other search terms like "hexayurt," "cooking," Linda, etc.

== Additional TIDES information ==

*[[STAR-TIDES Overview]]
*[[STAR-TIDES Activities]]
*[[STAR-TIDES Charter]]
*[[STAR-TIDES Research]]
*[[STAR-TIDES Plans]]

== Educational Focus ==
The project seeks to educate and train those who could use TIDES-like solutions for economic development and emergency response activities such as humanitarian assistance, disaster relief, and refugee support. It also aims to inform interested members of the general public. TIDES is pursuing partnerships with educational institutions at the graduate, undergraduate and high school levels to encourage student involvement.

== Activities of the Volunteer TIDES Teams ==
The STAR-TIDES project is building long-term, multi-sector, collaborative relationships among citizens, businesses, academia and government. The project welcomes broad participation, questions, and comments by interested parties. Several teams are forming, made up of individuals who want to make sustained contributions. The TIDES Teams will:

#Coordinate efforts to understand the needs of stressed populations in various situations
#Propose and communicate potential solution sets and approaches to meet these needs.
#Improve solutions sets and approaches through continuous process improvement techniques, demonstrations, field evaluations, experiments, and workshops.
#Develop educational tools (online and paper field manuals, training materials, draft policies and procedures) and a mentoring network, using open source development methods.



== Resources ==
===Documents===
[[STAR-TIDES Field Manual]]

[[Media:TIDES BOARDS FIRST DRAFT SMALL.pdf|TIDES BOARDS FIRST DRAFT SMALL]] (PDF)- Display boards and pictures from the STAR-TIDES demonstration. A very useful starting point for understanding the systems on display and how they fit together.

[[STAR-TIDES Notes Awaiting Wikification]] - post text here that needs to be tidied and integrated.

[[TIDES technology documentation template]] - click here for guidelines on adding new technologies to the STAR-TIDES infrastructures.


==Tools==
* [http://www.google.com/coop/cse?cx=009941892632664145530%3Aolrptgetefk Project STAR-TIDES Document and Archive Catalog Search]: Catalog for Sustainable Technologies Acceleration Research - Transportable Infrastructure for Development and Emergency Situations (STAR-TIDES) [http://project.star.tides.googlepages.com/ Documents Library]
* [http://www.google.com/coop/cse?cx=009941892632664145530%3Aglw3czclbti Appropriate Technology Custom Search]: A Google Co-op Custom Search Tool for finding quality information related to Sustainable Tech Sources for the Developing World.

== See also ==

* [[Sustainable technology]]
* [[Appropriate technology]]

[[Category:STAR-TIDES]]