This is a set of issues we're dealing with the [[OpenTripPlanner]] tool of relevance to the OSSTIP project.

== Concerns with accuracy of OTP Analyst Isochrones in late evening or overnight ==

'''Created:''' 2014-03-13<br /> 
'''Status:''' Emailed to OTP mailing lists, created issue on Github, possible code debugging needed.

Issue is at :- https://github.com/opentripplanner/OpenTripPlanner/issues/1373

See mailing list posts:
* https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/opentripplanner-dev/6uVUXVc8Xcs
* https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/opentripplanner-users/bWi2XyegAvA

== Concerns about maxTransfers value too low by default ==

(Moved from original location in [[OSSTIP/Project_blog#2013-08-29_:-_Making_some_progress_with_OTP_Batch_Analyst_for_calculating_OD_Matrices_and_more_advanced_visualisations]]) 

'''Created:''' 2013-08-29<br /> 
'''Status:''' Ongoing.

See:- https://groups.google.com/d/msg/opentripplanner-users/m8xSRFOA8nY/e-UnlH2tQ4EJ

Hi there,

I've been using OpenTripPlanner as part of a research project to propose improvements to Melbourne, Australia's public transport network - and its shaping up really well so far.

A concern that arose today though from a transport planning perspective :- it appears the default value of maxTransfers=2 in the RoutingRequest class ?? I discovered this when doing some batch analyst tests and it was giving a -1 trip time value for several trips until I increased this parameter.

As a public transport-oriented researcher and advocate for sustainable transport I'm just a bit concerned with having a max transfer this low by default.

The reason is that a strong theme of research into transport best-practice in recent years is that for transit to compete with the car in terms of coverage, we need to plan entire networks that _do_ sometimes require several transfers to access all of a large urban region - but the transfer times should be minimised using pulse timetables or high-frequency services. See e.g. http://www.newsouthbooks.com.au/books/transport-for-suburbia_beyond-the-automobile-age/ or http://www.humantransit.org/2009/04/why-transferring-is-good-for-you-and-good-for-your-city.html

So could I suggest at least 3 as the default?? What do other users think?

I know its just a value that can be overridden in the application-context.xml :- but in my experience as a developer and scientist in computational modelling, default parameter values really do matter ;)

[[Category:OSSTIP]]
[[Category:OpenTripPlanner]]
[[Category:GIS]]