== WP Essentials ==

This is a Work Package as part of the [[OSSTIP]] project.

'''Inputs''': 
* All GTFS timetables of proposed modified networks for Melbourne train, tram and bus (See [[OSSTIP/WPPTUA1]], [[OSSTIP/WPPTUA2]], and [[OSSTIP/WPPTUA3]]). 
* [[OpenTripPlanner]] based batch routing capabilities, to calculate the change in travel times and plot Isochrones between two different networks (Originally tested and developed in [[OSSTIP/WPBZE2]]).
* GIS shapefiles containing travel-analysis zone locations of interest for Melbourne.

'''Outputs''': Analysis results in the form of:
* Origin-Destination travel time matrices calculated in the modified PTUA network;
* Spreadsheets which summarise the difference in travel time between the current PTV network, and the modified network.
* Maps showing Isochrones to/from several key locations around Melbourne, under the current PTV network+timetable and the modified PTUA network+timetable.

'''Estimated Time''': Medium. 

== Requirements Summary ==

As per specified outputs, this WP will require setting up an [[OpenTripPlanner]] graph which integrates the modified PTUA timetables developed for each mode. Then, running analysis on this graph and saving results, using the tools in the https://github.com/PatSunter/OTP-Routing-Tools package.

== Results ==

== Notes on extensions, links ==

A possible extension is to upload some of these results to the www.melbptfutures.net web-server.

[[Category:OSSTIP]]
[[Category:Transport informatics]][[Category:Public transport informatics]]
[[Category:GIS]]
[[Category:GTFS]]
[[Category:OpenTripPlanner]]
[[Category:Open source software]]
[[Category:Public transport]]
[[Category:Melbourne]]