{{TOCright}}

Notes and links page for the Formenshus September workshop on '''[[Six ways to die]]''' ('''6WTD''')

http://www.emergencyhousing.se/news/six-ways-to-die/ workshop details

Anybody can edit this page to add ideas and material. 

Johan Karlsson is the event organizer. Vinay Gupta - hexayurt@gmail.com (http://hexayurt.com/plan)- is the administrative point of contact for this page. 

== Clearly define goals ==

'''How do you know if your design is successful?'''

== Parallel Events ==

[[Eindhoven Shelter 2009]]

== About disasters ==

http://www.ifrc.org/publicat/wdr2009/index.asp 2009 World Disasters Report from the Red Cross

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C46KqTY2cpM - and here's a video

http://www.unhrd.org/catalog.asp UNHRDS's catalog of all equipment used by UNHCR, WFP, WHO and other UN bodies

== Videos of the event ==

http://hexayurt.blip.tv/posts?view=archive&nsfw=dc - the tents, the introduction talks, the hexayurt, stove, MSB toilet and so on.

http://files.howtolivewiki.com/hope_for_the_world/ has video and slides ("Hope for the World") from the February "Transitional Living" event at Formens Hus. There is a lot of discussion here about the future of the planet, and what designers can ''really'' do to help.

== The "Six Ways To Die" model ==

http://files.howtolivewiki.com/six_ways_to_die

http://www.scribd.com/doc/16355390/Dealing-in-Security-understanding-vital-services-and-how-they-keep-you-safe-

http://files.howtolivewiki.com/reykjavik_briefing/

== Shelter ==

Sphere standards: http://www.sphereproject.org/content/view/100/84/lang,English/

The Hexayurt Project: http://hexayurt.com (my cheap shelter design, like the white hut at the demonstration)

=== Too hot ===

=== Too cold ===

== Supply ==

=== Hunger ===

Typical refugee diet http://www.stopgenocidenow.org/refugee-fast/2008/12/02/792

=== Thirst ===

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Waterborne_diseases

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portable_water_purification

plastics which stop bacteria

http://www.wellsplastics.com/httdocs/antimicrobials.html

http://mcgroup.co.uk/news/2008/1/28/3///Fundamentally%20New%20Antimicrobial%20Permanently%20Protects%20Plastics,%20Acting%20Safely%20and%20Effectively%20Without%20Leaching.html - bactriostatic plastic

http://www.biocote.com/?gclid=CL7xx-bYh50CFWAB4wodMhR3TA

http://www.plasticstoday.com/mpw/articles/germs-beware-antimicrobial-plastics-launched-6

== Safety ==

=== Illness ===

http://www.who.int/whr/2004/annex/topic/en/annex_2_en.pdf world causes of death

http://culturematters.wordpress.com/2008/07/15/anthropologist-helps-sell-hand-washing-habit/ advertising helps increase the hand washing rate in Ghana

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Composting_toilet composting toilet

http://www.sulabhinternational.org/st/advantages_sulabh_toilets.php sulabh toilets - see videos on youtube

http://biorealis.com/wwwroot/digester_revised.html biogas production calculator

http://cgi.ebay.in/**New-Item--Aluminium-30-Liter-Pressure-Cooker-Super**_W0QQitemZ290352057547QQcmdZViewItemQQimsxZ20090922?IMSfp=TL090922138001r2945 - ebay India 30 liter pressure cooker 11000 rupees

=== Injury ===

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democide

== Solutions ==

Ending Poverty with Open Hardware

http://files.howtolivewiki.com/Reykjavik_Digital_Freedoms_Conference/FSFI%20presentation.pdf - notes on risks and specific technologies

=== Technologies ===

Wood gasification stoves 

http://www.woodgas.com/ 

http://www.woodgas-stove.com/woodgas-stove/home.php

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RpHatIvyfac (video of a stove in operation)

ROSS water purification cart

http://www.thisisredbutton.co.uk/work.html

Giant solar funnel

http://vimeo.com/5112443 - but why have solar cookers typically failed in practice?

Potters for Peace "Filtron"

http://potterswithoutborders.com/forum/?p=12

AMURT [[Haiti]] integrated infrastructure

http://amurthaiti.org/text.php?tf=accomplish_infra.txt

== Airdropping packages ==

http://contentdm.lindahall.org/cdm4/results.php?CISOOP1=exact&CISOFIELD1=CISOSEARCHALL&CISOROOT=/parachute&CISOBOX1=U.S.+Army+Natick+Laboratories.+Airdrop+Engineering+Laboratory.

https://www.patentstorm.us/patents/3982057/description.html

== Presentation format ==

At most six slides, to be delivered in six minutes, including:

* One slide that states
** which of the 6 ways to die the system addresses - too hot, too cold, hunger, thirst, illness, injury
** which time periods it works for - 3 days, 3 weeks, 3 months, 3 years
** how the system gets to the disaster zone - fly or ship on a truck or store or produce locally

* One slide which gives a user scenario
** Person is in an earthquake
** They are in a cold climate
** The product is a special coat which can be dropped from a plane, which they wear to keep warm
** About this level of detail is enough

* One slide which estimates cost for the system
** Maximum budget is 100 - 200 euros per person, at most 100 for shelter or 20 for any individual system
** Family or village sized units can take 20 euros per person served, so if a toilet system served 200 people, it could cost up to 4000 euros

This only gives a couple of slides to talk about the technology. You will have to be very clear about what you are building!

Presentations will be given against an egg timer which will go ding after 6 minutes!

[[Category:Events]]