{{TheFWD header}}{{DISPLAYTITLE:39. A Healthy and Smiling Planet - Anil Prasad}}
Hi friends, if the future environmental situations would force the world population to queue up for the daily ration of oxygen supply, floating over water and wearing heavy insulated suits, all prosperity would mean nothing but a curse <ref>http://apletters.blogspot.com/2009/12/to-save-our-planet.html</ref>. It will be the future we deserve, if we continue to harm our lovely planet – the most precious planet in the vicinity of science so far. Definitely, we do not want this nightmare to happen. Instead, we want a healthier and smiling planet - IT SHOULD BE THE FUTURE WE DESERVE. The enormous quality as well as quantity of knowledge, experience and wisdom acquired through the millions of years of existence in this planet make man deserve for it.

How can we make the planet healthier and more smiling? (the answer to it will also explain when it does smile). Well, I think, the greener the planet is, the healthier it would become.  Similarly, the more peaceful it is, the more smiley it would become. This should be the future we deserve.

At this, the next question arises - ''What should be the effective strategy that can take us to the future we deserve?'' It is nothing other than SIMPLICITY! <ref>http://apletters.blogspot.com/2010/10/when-simplicity-would-mean-survival.html</ref> Because, the root cause of most of the problems are man's struggles to own luxuries. Apart from environmental issues, it also causes unrest in our individual as well as social lives.

In the current world situations, our luxuries have much more serious and deep implications than the individual health issues. In the millions of years of history, man has overcome drastic changes in living environments by naturally adjusting himself with the changes. But today, the fortress of luxuries that we build recklessly around us has made the adaptation to natural changes quite impossible. Ironically, the luxuries that we build to create what we believe is a comfortable living environment, actually make the changes in the environment harder for us to adapt to. It is the real hurdle on our way to the deserved future.

Now the crucial question before us is ''"how are we  going to advance towards our deserved future with the power of simplicity?"'' In my opinion, we needn't make big leaps. Small steps would be more effective. For example, we should decide today itself that we shall not use motor vehicles for travels below two k.m, as long as you are healthy and the weather is not too bad? We will be free to occasionally breach it for emergencies. As responsible individuals we may also ensure that authorities build and maintain safe walkways for people.

We may also:

# Keep away from consumerism and lead a simple life to the maximum extent possible. Stop fleeing after luxuries, it will save not only the PLANET but also our family budget and health.
# Love agriculture and farming. Find sufficient time to work in the farm along with the family members and stay with them in the home.
# In agriculture, use environment friendly alternatives to chemical pesticides and fertilizers (a lot of environment friendly alternatives are available now). Research and develop more such alternatives and share them with the global community.
# Effectively use online technologies to avoid unnecessary travels. This can visibly reduce the threat of hydrocarbons.
# Research and develop open technologies to make cyber space more socially accountable.
# Use public transport systems for travel and help authorities to maintain reliable, safe and comfortable public transport systems.<ref>http://apletters.blogspot.com/2009/08/need-for-state-owned-public-conveyance.html</ref>
# Develop and popularize alternative planet friendly open technologies in place of technologies that ruin the planet.

All these together will provide us a deserved future of living in a healthier and more smiling planet.

{{TheFWD references}}

[[Category:TheFWD]]