= Need to filter 50 gallons of water per day? =
Use a 6 foot long section of 4" diameter Schedule 40 [[PVC]] (Rigid white plastic pipe)  Cover the bottom with wire or something to hold the [[filter]] material in place.  Fold a piece of [[fiberglass cloth]] two or three times and put into the bottom of the pipe.  Follow that with a two-foot layer of [[activated charcoal]] (either home-made or from a fish aquarium supply store).  On top of the charcoal is a two-foot layer of fine [[sand]], then the top-most layer is two foot of pea [[gravel]].

= Need to filter 10,000 gallons per day? =
The same method scales up nicely.  Instead of a PVC pipe, use 55 gallon food grade plastic barrels of [[filter medium]], where the inlet pipe opens at the bottom of the barrel, and the outlet pipe is near the top of the barrel.   Use a separate barrel for pea gravel, sand, and fiberglass cloth. 

[[Filtration]] (especially of [[pathogens]] such as bacteria and viruses) is improved be added with a sufficiently established culture (''see [[Biofilter]]'').  Bacterial filtration will help remove some chemicals, like ammonia and phosphates, but will not be able to remove everything.

Note: This is mechanical filtration for removing dirt and particulate matter. It will remove some of the bacteria, minerals, and heavy metals, as all of these are almost entirely attached to particles. A [[disinfection]] step (e.g. [[chlorination]] or [[solar distillation]]) is highly recommended to complete, i.e. kill [[pathogens]] in the water.  

More thorough filtration can be achieved with a [[slow sand filter]] or [[reverse osmosis]]

If there is [[arsenic]] in the water, this is a different matter, and does require a special filter design.

== See also ==
* [[Bleach]]
* [[Low cost water filter]]

== External links ==
* [http://www.southafrica.info/business/trends/innovations/waterpurifier-270710.htm Activated carbon teabag made by Eugene Cloete]
* [http://www.lifesaversystems.com/ LIFESAVER bottle]

[[Category:Technology]]
[[Category:Water filters]]