== '''MISSION''' ==
''re-appropriate our built environment''


Causing creative transformations of abandoned buildings & spaces; a systems-theory approach towards adaptive-reuse.

Introducing permaculture to abandoned spaces to net vibrant & innovative, multi-useful spaces.

Compiling an intelligent strategy to revive our neglected structures; integrating radical architecture, permaculture, design, systems theory, input and output schemes, food systems, imagination, and more. 

== '''FORWARD''' ==
''welcome to the wild world; of the abandoned''


Industrialism has a wake; as that tide wanes away . . . relics, remains, treasures, antiques, bones . . . this wealth of reminders begins to really adorn our shared landscape. 

Yes they are testaments to overproduction, reminders of economic boom-bust, models of what not to do, and victims of quick-bucks; but our abandoned buildings are also eastereggs, ripe for rebirth. And they deserve our attention.

As we face this modern world, and all of its challenges (as we shoulder global warming, peak everything, & environmental collapse; as we innovate a body of solutions embracing holistic systems, integrated living, permaculture, earthen building, appropriate technology, green design, sustainable cities, and all the rest) we must not overlook our abandoned buildings. 
As failures of a dated system, they are our opportunity for a new one.
If we wanted an inch, they gave us a topography.

Poetic & naked, breathtaking & tragic, messy & omens, addictive & grizzled, abstract & concrete, controversial; welcome to the marvelous, newold world of abandoned buildings. 

Like babies, we built our environment. Stacking blocks and blocks in myopic grids, gutting the complex ecosystems we are now falling in love with, dispossessing the intricate webs we are now attempting to re-connect, we built our environment. 
It becomes clearer, and clearer, as we look around us. Our landscapes are becoming riddled in abandoned buildings; and something (a lot) needs to be done.

== '''APPROACH''' ==
''it's like dumpsterdiving; for buildings''


===<font color="teal">Preparatory Contemplations</font>===

=====an abandoned building is already something=====

*start with what you've got; even if it seems like nothing, it's something
*an abandoned building is sleeping energy; ready for adaptation

=====detectives dig=====
*do your homework: dig through archives & histories; talk to the locals 	& all the nearby institutions; use the internet
*buildings -like people- often have layers & layers of fascinating 	stories to tell; build on these unique experiences
*consider angles of preservation: rescue & celebrate the peculiar 	components & the unique features

=====flow on=====
*if any qualities jump out, follow them; the transformation has just as much -if not more- to do with the building than it has to do with you

=====visionary trajectory=====
*realize the impacts the original architects and construction crew has wrought upon you, as you attempt to revive the building
	what could they have done to smooth your process
	what shortcuts did they make which slow you down
*when possible, design flexibility into the building's restoration
	know that, some day, the building will deteriorate and ruin once more . . .  embrace user-friendly functionality
		material use, wiring/plumbing, & repairs 
		minute installations often lead to huge headaches for everyone


===<font color="teal">Initial Approach</font>===

*think nothing. just observe, listen, & get to know the building
*sit across the street; behold the building from a nearby rooftop
*circumnavigate the building a dozen times; then a dozen more
*eat/sleep/sing/dance/drink tea; in as many areas as possible
*stand in the building's very center; draw geometric lines however they appear logical; pace them each
*stand in the building's very center; draw a spiral however it appears to uncoil; walk it slowly


===<font color="teal">The Pieces of Procedure Pie</font>===

=====Disposition - '(who is this building)'===== 
	the building's previous life(s) & intention(s); its personality
		food related, hotel, school, prison, theatre, etc.
		does its physical shape/design signify a unique usage 
		the more information regarding its history, the better
	investigate the context
	       is it part of a larger network of structures/should it be?
		does the building have any special relationships/should it?

=====Conditions - '(what is this building doing)'===== 
	diagnose the building's health; its degree of degradation
		reinforcements, restoration, continued maintenance
	dimensions
		area (of building & land)
		# of floors, # of walls
		is there an attic, a rooftop, a basement, a cellar . . .?
		carrying capacity

=====Setting - '(where is this building)'===== 
	bioregion 
		flora & fauna, climate, weather, 
	country 
		government, squatter's rights, quirks, and particular 
	surroundings/vicinity
		is there a local community


== '''DATABASES''' ==
''resources''


===websites===

	(im)possible living

	artificial owl

	urban-travel.org
	
	web-urbanist

	AbandonedButNotForgotten

	Urban Ghosts Media

	The Secret Apartment in the Mall


===books===

	ninjalicious

	dunites

	Beneath the Neon: Life and Death in the Tunnels of Las Vegas

[[Category:Buildings]]