{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality,
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, North America, South America
|Image=Acuset.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Acute and chronic diarrhea causes damage to a child’s stomach lining and disrupts their ability to digest essential proteins. Protein energy malnutrition accounts for over half of all children’s deaths in resource-limited countries. The current flow controller for IV treatment is difficult to set properly, even for health workers, and can change setting inadvertently with even slight patient movement. This can result in improper and variable administration of drugs over time.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Acuset IV flow controller monitors drug delivery by rotation of a dial to the intended setting. It is highly accurate and can be used by untrained operators and novices. This increases safety as many patients are forced to regulate their medicine themselves. The device attaches to the IV bag so it can be reused for any amount of medicine bags and patients.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Medicine Mondiale team from Design That Matters
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location: New Zealand

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
 
==Funding Source==
Saatchi & Saatchi World Changing Ideas Award finalist

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===

===Other internally generated reports===
Medicine Mondiale. (2008). Acuset IV flow controller. Retrieved December 1, 2013 from [http://www.medicinemondiale.org/PROJECTS/Acuset+IV+Flow+Controller.html here.]

===Externally generated reports===
Maternova. Acuset IV flow controller. Retrieved December 1, 2013 from [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/acuset-iv-flow-controller here.]

===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->