{{notready}}
*video didnt load
* missing majority of info for OSAT project

== Overview ==

This simply tool for tying fish hooks was designed and printed on a RepRap2 3D printer in a very short amount of time.  A similar product that retails online for $10 to $15 is plastic inject molded.  In parts of the world that live on as little as $1 to $5 a day, a simple plastic tool can become quite expensive for people who depend on fish for a food source and income.  A fish hook tying aid like the one presented here would prevent the hook from snagging on the individual's hand tying the hook.  If a hook gets caught in someone's hand, there is a potential for injury and possibly tetanus.  This tool reduces that risk.

The CAD models from FreeCAD and the exported .stl files can be found here: [https://www.youmagine.com/designs/fish-hook-tying-aid YouImagine Link for Fish Hook Tying Tool]

== Instructions for use ==

1. The fish "hook" simply slides into the slotted opening on the short side of the hook tool while the longer end of the hook slides into the slot on the longer end of the hook tool.
2. Apply a slight amount of pressure on the hook so it presses into the printed material and is secure.
3. Slide the fish line through the hole opening for the fishing line.
4. Tie the line to the hook, ensuring a good tie of the line.  Grab the printed part to twist the line for the knot being made on the line.
5. Slide the hook out of the tool, and the hook is ready to be set with bait.  Time to fish!

An additional instructional video for tying the fish hook with this tool is provided here:

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6_7jidw6QoQ YouTube Link with Instructions]