[[category: MOST literature reviews]]
{{MOST}}
{{Lit}}

==Introduction==

This page describes literature related to aluminum-iron intermetallic compounds. 

==Relevant literature==

1. Akdeniz, M. V. & Mekhrabov, A. O. The effect of substitutional impurities on the evolution of Fe-Al diffusion layer. Acta Materialia 46, 1185–1192 (1998).

2. Akdeniz, M. V., Mekhrabov, A. O. & Yilmaz, T. The role of Si addition on the interfacial interaction in Fe-Al diffusion layer. Scripta Metallurgica et Materialia 31, 1723–1728 (1994).

3. Bouché, K., Barbier, F. & Coulet, A. Intermetallic compound layer growth between solid iron and molten aluminium. Materials Science and Engineering: A 249, 167–175 (1998).

4. Cheng, W.-J. & Wang, C.-J. Growth of intermetallic layer in the aluminide mild steel during hot-dipping. Surface and Coatings Technology 204, 824–828 (2009).

5. Eggeler, G., Auer, W. & Kaesche, H. On the influence of silicon on the growth of the alloy layer during hot dip aluminizing. J Mater Sci 21, 3348–3350 (1986).

6. Gebhardt, E. & Obrowski, W. Reaktionen von festem eisen mit schmelzen aus aluminium und aluminiumlegierungen. Z. Metallkd. 44, 154–160      (1953).

7. Heumann, T. & Dittrich, S. Structure character of the Fe2Al5 intermetallics compound in hot dip aluminizing process. Z. Metallkd. 50, (1959).

8. Kobayashi, S. & Yakou, T. Control of intermetallic compound layers at interface between steel and aluminum by diffusion-treatment. Materials Science and Engineering: A 338, 44–53 (2002).

9. Shahverdi, H. R., Ghomashchi, M. R., Shabestari, S. & Hejazi, J. Microstructural analysis of interfacial reaction between molten aluminium and solid iron. Journal of Materials Processing Technology 124, 345–352 (2002).

10. Yeremenko, V. N., Natanzon, Y. V. & Dybkov, V. I. The effect of dissolution on the growth of the Fe2Al5 interlayer in the solid iron -liquid aluminium system. J Mater Sci 16, 1748–1756 (1981).