{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Tuberculosis,
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Commercialized
|Image=AFTERimage.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
There is a strong need for improved laboratory diagnosis for TB.  Stains such as the Ziehl-Neelsen are inaccurate, time intensive, and subject to interpretation.  A new fluorescent stain called Auromine O (AuO) appears to be the future of TB microscopy, but the issue is the availability of fluorescent scopes.  The AFTER LED fluorescence device is an add-on component that can be used as an attachment to most of the already available microscopes.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This device is an add-on to Olympus, Carl Zeiss, Nikon, Leica, and Motic microscopes that uses low-cost LEDs for fluorescent microscopy.  The LEDs provide an upgrade over old technologies like mercury and xenon by allowing for significant increase in performance, lifetime, and operating costs. The device is capable of producing a full rainbow of fluorescence (up to 3 at a time), and requires a power supply to operate.  It does not change the characteristics of the previous microscope and will not void warranties.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Fraen Corporation
*Made in: Reading, Massachusetts, USA and in Italy

==Funding Source==
This project receives internal funding.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Albert, H., Manabe, Y., & Lukyamuzi, G. (2010). Performance of three LED-based fluorescence microscopy systems for detection of tuberculosis in Uganda. PloS one. Link available [http://dx.plos.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0015206 here].

Hänscheid, T. (2008). The future looks bright: low-cost fluorescent microscopes for detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Coccidiae. Transactions of the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine. Link available [http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0035920308000928 here].

Lang, D. S., Zeiser, T., Schultz, H., Stellmacher, F., Vollmer, E., Zabel, P., & Goldmann, T. (2008). LED-FISH: Fluorescence microscopy based on light emitting diodes for the molecular analysis of Her-2/neu oncogene amplification. Diagnostic pathology, 3, 49. PDF available [http://www.biomedcentral.com/content/pdf/1746-1596-3-49.pdf here].

===Other internally generated reports===
"Detection of Auramine O stained Mycobacterium tuberculosis by means of transmitted light LED fluorescence – a new approach." Fraen Corporation. PDF available [http://www.fraensrl.com/images/Fraen_Microscope_tuberculosis.pdf here].

===Externally generated reports===
“Fluorescence LED Module & Microscope.” Lab Vision Corporation Quarterly Newsletter. PDF available [http://labvision.com/pdf/newslettern3.pdf here].

Mazzini G, Ferrari C, Baraldo N, Mazzini M, and Angelini M. “Improvements in fluorescence microscopy allowed by high power light emitting diodes.” Formatex Research Center. 2004.

===IP and copyright===
*AFTER device is International Patent Pending.

*TRANSMITTED LIGHT FLUORESCENCE MICROSCOPE AND KIT FOR ADAPTING A MICROSCOPE TO THE TRANSMITTED LIGHT FLUORESCENCE WORKING MODE
Publication Date: 13.07.2006
Application Number: PCT/IB2006/000160

*Method of LED fluorescence
Application number 11/194,905
Publication number  US 2006/0039141 A1
Filing date: Aug 1, 2005