{{TheFWD header}}{{DISPLAYTITLE:72. An Ideal World - Paola Di Maio}}
In the future we deserve there must be an ideal world somewhere.

The expression ‘ideal world’ nowadays often points to ‘wishful thinking’. But it wasn't always so. In ancient times, the notion of ideal was widely upheld, and the philosopher
Plato, and others,  based a whole school of thought on it, broadly known as ‘idealism’. 
Idealists are notoriously hard to please. Plato, like other philosophers, probably never got married (but he may have had sex.<ref>http://webspace.ship.edu/cgboer/athenians.html</ref>).
We have become accustomed to hear ‘In an ideal world perhaps...but in reality...it’s not so...’,
as if ideals weren’t within our reach.  But it’s mostly a question of the way we look at things.
There should be no true reason however to rule out the possibility of  attaining some level of
what’s ideal. Quite the contrary. Ideals, like values, can provide some sense of direction and
lead toward what is ‘desirable’.

Humanity progresses through the pursuit of ‘ideals’. <ref>http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?term=idea</ref>

There are things in life that we cannot change: where and when we are born, our family, how we
grow up, our early life experiences. Everything else is more or less  determined by choices,
conscious or not.  The outcome of our personal decisions and efforts, the endpoint of where our
individual energies are directed.  Ideals can provide some gravity to pull these personal efforts,
and be navigation aids to provide orientation in the many improbable webs of possibilities.
So when trying to figure out how to get to our ideal world, we may have to take a good look at
whether it's the ‘given’ portion that we are expecting to satisfy our every expectation, or the
portion that we can make out for ourselves, our little personal contribution toward the ideal
universe, that maybe is within our reach.

Even in discussing ideal terms, one has to be realistic.

{{TheFWD references}}

[[Category:TheFWD]]