{{Organization
| Organization_logo  = http://apptechdesign.org/apptechdv2/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/ATC-Logo-With-Text-and-Slogan-2-JPEG.jpg
| Organization_name  = The Appropriate Technology Collaborative
| Organization_type  = Technology development and promotion
| founded_date      = 2007
| founders          = John Barrie
| location          = 3765 Plaza Drive, Ann Arbor, MI 48108
| area_served       = 
| focus             = Innovative programs and technologies
| methods           = 
| homepage          = http://apptechdesign.org/
| partner           =
}}

The Appropriate Technology Collaborative is a registered charity based in Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA and San Marcos la Laguna, Guatemala.

ATC works with groups in less economically developed countries to identify technology and program needs and then develop solutions tailored to those needs.


==Mission statement==
"Over two billion people live without access to basic infrastructure services such as clean water, sanitation and electricity. Another billion people live in slum cities, with minimal infrastructure. The great majority of these people illuminate their homes with kerosene lamps, cook their food over wood fires, and lack potable water. Living like this, with poor sanitation leads to malnutrition, disease and early death.

The Appropriate Technology Collaborative (ATC) is a 501 (c)(3) not-for-profit organization whose purpose is to design, develop, demonstrate and distribute appropriate technological solutions for meeting basic human needs of low income people in the developing world. ATC works in collaboration with our clients and other nonprofits (NGOs) to create technologies that are culturally sensitive, environmentally responsible and locally repairable in order to improve the quality of life, enhance safety, and reduce adverse impacts on their environment.

ATC designs partners are the people and the communities we serve. We create long term relationships with our client communities so that we can better understand and design for their particular needs.

In 2016 ATC's program ''Mayan Power and Light'' was recognized as a global top 100 sustainable solution by Sustainia working in  collaboration with the United Nations Sustainable Development Program.  Link: http://bit.ly/ATC_Sustainia_PDF"<ref>The information below is taken from the Appropriate Technology Collaborative [http://apptechdesign.org/ homepage].</ref>


==Resources and publications==
ATC Design Library:
* Solar LED lighting - Mayan Power and Light: http://apptechdesign.org/apptechdv2/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/mayalight5.jpg
* Solar refrigeration - http://bit.ly/ATC_Solar_Refrigerator
* Treadle pump - http://bit.ly/ATC_TreadlePump
* Affordable Insulation - http://bit.ly/ATC_Affordable_Insul
* Ram Pump - http://bit.ly/ATC_RamPump

These designs are on the ATC site, more to come!

==Footnotes==
{{Reflist}}
[[Category:Appropriate technology organizations]]