== Criteria ==
The usual criteria for [[appropriate technology]] are essential, being suitable to the local environment and the most critical needs of the users. Specifically for refugees' needs: 
* When there is a lack of outside assistance, use of local, readily available materials is especially important.
* When there is outside assistance, affordable mass-produced survival equipment, mass-produced materials are generally desirable.
* Ease and speed of delivery. 
* Ability to be prepared and stored beforehand as a contingency, by aid organizations, for rapid deployment.
* Compact packing, e.g. flat pack or stacking. This is essential for preparation beforehand and quick transport.
* Ease and safety of use by refugees with a minimum of demonstrations and instructions.
* Line drawing instructions included with the technologies, just 

== Needed materials and technologies ==

=== Critical needs (first 48 hours) ===

* Efficient use of fuel sources. Where wood is used for fuel, [[improved cook stoves ]] are essential.
* [[Sanitation]], to maintain [[public health]], preventing outbreaks of disease such as [[cholera]]. 
* [[Clean water]], adequate quantity and availability to allow [[hand-washing]] and bathing, to prevent spread of disease. This may be through [[emergency water treatment]] of local sources, or by transporting water.

When strategizing for possible future disaster responses, it is important to consider how the initial response will transition to longer term responses.

=== Short term needs (first days and weeks) ===

* Fuel sources. Especially when travel is unsafe, alternatives such as effective [[solar cookers]] become attractive.
* Transporting of water replaced or supplemented by [[emergency water treatment]] of local water sources, to ensure security of supply
* Local sources of food identified.

== Longer term needs ==

Sadly, many refugees remain in "temporary" camps for years. While on a political level it is important to avoid this happening, on a response and technology level, we can reduce the suffering implied by this: 
* More established forms of [[water treatment]]
* Reuse of human waste is also desirable for longer term refugee camps, but is much less critical than preventing disease. [[Urine]] is the safest and easiest to reuse; [[EcoSan]] or [[Composting toilets]] take more work and require more caution to do safely.
* [[Emergency permaculture]]: Growing food, using available resources, to supplement or replace aid. 

== See also == 
* [[Hexayurt Project]], focused on [[emergency shelters]], as well as developing a tool kit of all essential technologies for disaster situations. 

[[Category:Appropriate technology]]
[[Category:Emergency management]]
[[Category:Technology for temporary communities]]