
[[category:Athena]]

=Online Design Repositories=

A semi-exhaustive list of parts repositories may be seen [http://reprap.org/wiki/Printable_part_sources here]. The most popular are [http://thingiverse.com thingiverse] and [http//youmagine.com youmagine].

=Athena-Specific Information=

Athena designs and modifications are maintained at [https://github.com/phidiasllc github] in the [https://github.com/phidiasllc/athena Athena repository]. The 3-D models themselves are located in the stl folder; OpenSCAD files are in the scad folder.

The upgrades folder contains files for resetting features, such as making possible attachment of the robot to a larger network. Follow the instructions on the upgrades page.

=Franklin=

Franklin firmware source code is maintained at [https://github.com/mtu-most/franklin the github repository]. Images for the BEaglebone are located at [http://most.mse.mtu.edu/franklin the MOST Franklin image source]. Note that the current stabe image is the one dated May 17, 2016.

=Solid Modeling Software=

A semi-exhaustive list of solid modeling software is available at [http://reprap.org/wiki/Useful_Software_Packages reprap.org].

==Open-Source Solid Modeling Software==

All of the printed parts for Athena are designed and maintained in [http://openscad.org OpenSCAD], which is a script-based solid modeling package. OpenSCAD is parametric.

Another rapidly developing, full-featured solid modeling package is [http://freecadweb.org FreeCAD]. Keep an eye on this one as it is very similar to commercial solid modeling software commonly used in industry. FreeCAD is parametric.

[http://blender.org Blender] is designed for production of complex computer animation and includes robust 3-D modeling module designed for artistic renderings. It is not parametric. 

==Free To Use Solid Modeling Software==

[http://www.sketchup.com/ SketchUp] is a popular free software used for designing parametric and non-parametric designs.

[http://tinkercad.com TinkerCAD] is an online 3-D modeling software that runs in a browser.

[http://3dtin.com 3DTin] Is another browser-based solid modeling software.

=Navigation=
{{template:Athena_Basic_Nav}}