{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, South America
|Image=BakriSOS.jpg
|Image Caption=Bakri SOS balloon
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Postpartum hemorrhaging is one of the most severe causes of maternal mortality. PPH (Postpartum hemorrhaging) rates in the developed worlds have severely decreased, but they are still a great threat in developing countries. The World Health Organization suggests that there are over 100,000 deaths due to postpartum hemorrhaging every year. 
==Detailed description of the solution==
The Bakri SOS balloon is an obstetrical silicone balloon that has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. It was designed for one use only. The balloon is connected to a 24 French, 54 cm long silicone catheter. The balloon is inserted into the vagina in order to tamponade bleeding. There is a monitor that supervises excessive bleeding. 
==Designed by==
*Designed by: Designer/Inventor: Younes N Bakri, MD. West Virginia University School of Medicine 


*Manufacturer (if different): Cook Medical
*Manufacturer location:

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
 
==Funding Source==

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
* [http://www.appropedia.org Example External URL]

Bakri YN, Amri A, Abdul Jabbar F. Tamponade-balloon for obstetrical bleeding. 
Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2001;74(2):139-142.
Bakri, Y. N., A. Amri, et al. (2001). "Tamponade-balloon for obstetrical bleeding." International Journal of Gynecology and Obstetrics 74(2): 139-142.
Vitthala, S., I. Tsoumpou, et al. (2009). "Use of Bakri balloon in post-partum haemorrhage: A series of 15 cases." Australian and New Zealand Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology 49(2): 191-194.
===Other internally generated reports===
===Externally generated reports===
===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->