{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Bd soloshot.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Systematic immunization of newborn children plays a vital role in reducing the disease burden around the world, and syringes and needles are obviously of utmost importance in performing immunizations.  However, the misuse of these devices contributes to the transmission of deadly blood-borne diseases such as Hepatitis B and HIV/AIDS.  Each year, more than 12 billion injections are administered worldwide; last year in developing countries an estimated 50 percent of injections were deemed to be unsafe.  When syringes and needles are reused on multiple patients, disease can easily be transmitted from one patient to another.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The BD SoloShot LX Syringe is designed to prevent the syringe and the needle from being reused.  After an injection is given to a patient, the plunger automatically locks and the syringe and needle cannot be reused.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Program for Appropriate Technologies in Health (PATH)
*Manufacturing: This technology has been licensed and is now manufactured and marketed by BD (Becton, Dickinson & Company) in facilities around the world.
*Headquarters: BD Medical, 1 Becton Drive, MC204, Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417

==Testing/Implementation ==
BD conducted a clinical trial in Columbia in 2001 and the device is currently distributed in over 50 countries.  

==Funding Source==
This project is privately funded by BD Medical.
Funding has also come from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) under PATH's HealthTech program.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Griffiths UK, Santoas AC, Nundy N et al. (2010.) Incremental costs of introducing jet injection technology for delivery of routine childhood vaccinations: comparative analysis from Brazil, India, and South Africa. Vaccine 29(5):969-975. Abstract available [http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0264410X10016725 here].

Nelson CM, Sutanto A and Suradana IGP. (1999.) Use of SoloShot autodestruct syringes compared with disposable syringes, in a national immunization campaign in Indonesia. Bulletin of the WHO 77(1):29-33. PDF available [http://www.who.int/bulletin/archives/77(1)29.pdf here].

===Other internally generated reports===
BD (2011).  The BD™ SoloShot® Syringe BCG Auto-Disable Syringe. PDF available [http://www.bd.com/immunization/pdfs/products/bd_soloshot_LX.pdf here].

PATH (2011).Technology solutions for global health. PDF available [http://www.path.org/publications/files/TS_update_soloshot.pdf here].

===IP and copyright===
Publication number: US 2010/0174236 A1
Filing date: Nov 25, 2009

===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===
CE-Mark (CE-0086)
FDA Approval 10/28/2004