<table id="matrix" bgcolor="#004000" bordercolor="lime" class="proback" cellpadding="3" cellspacing="2" border="1" width="100%" >
<tr><td colspan="6"></td></tr>
<tr bgcolor="#DDF9BF">
<td colspan="6"><center>
<font size="+2">'''____ environmental impact of beef ____'''</font><br><br>
'''(compared to chicken/fish/eggs, dairy, and fruits/vegetables)'''<br><br>

'''Estimated carbon footprint, loss of natural habitat potential, loss of plant and animal life potential in natural habitat and/or extinction potential from making, packaging, shipping and/or using these products or services.'''<br>-----------<br>
+ Except for CO<sub>2</sub> emissions, estimates are based on [http://ecofx.org Habitat,_Life,_Extinction_Formulas_v2] via ecofx.org. +<br>
Estimates do not include the possible long-term ecological effects of climate change and persistent toxins.<br>
Formulas use "human appropriated net primary production (HANPP)" to "CO<sub>2</sub> emissions" correlation.<br>-----------<br>
1 kg(kilogram) = 2.2 lb(pounds) &nbsp; &nbsp; 1 m<sup>2</sup>(square meter) = 10.8 ft<sup>2</sup>(square feet)<br>1&nbsp;km(kilometers) = 0.62 mi(miles) &nbsp; &nbsp; 1 liter = 0.26 gallons
</center>
</td></tr>
<tr border="1"><td colspan="6"></td></tr>

<tr bgcolor="white">
	<td bgcolor="#FFFFE8" rowspan="1" alt="Product name." width="17%"><br>'''Beef - 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds)'''<hr>
	CO<sub>2</sub> from [http://www.soprisfoundation.org/PDFs/DailyCarbonCalcs_May08.pdf Sopris Foundation].  [[#ref1]] 1% of the CO<sub>2</sub> from  shipping to retailer.</td>
<td width="17%">Some of the materials used to raise  1 kilogram (2.2 pounds) of beef.
  <hr>  fertilizer, grain,  pesticides, antibiotics, gasoline</td>
<td width="17%">CO<sub>2</sub> released to raise 1 kilogram (2.2 pound) of beef.<hr>22.1 kg<br>48.6 lb</td>
<td width="17%">Loss of natural habitat potential to raise 1 kilogram (2.2 pound) of beef.
  <hr>17 m<sup>2</sup><br>183 ft<sup>2</sup></td>
<td width="17%">Loss of plant and animal life potential (in natural habitat) to raise 1 kilogram (2.2 pound) of beef.
  <hr>53 kg<br>116 lb</td>
<td width="17%">How many kilogram of beef it takes to trigger 1 potential species extinction.
  <hr>8.8 million</td></tr>
<tr bgcolor="white">
	<td bgcolor="#FFFFE8" rowspan="1" alt="Product name." width="17%"><br>'''Chicken/ Fish/ Eggs - 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds)'''<hr>	  
	  CO<sub>2</sub> from [http://www.soprisfoundation.org/PDFs/DailyCarbonCalcs_May08.pdf Sopris Foundation].  [[#ref1]] 3%-7% is  CO<sub>2</sub> from  shipping to retailer.</td>
  <td width="17%">Some of the materials used to raise 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds) of chicken/ fish/ eggs.
    <hr>
    fertilizer, grain, pesticides, gasoline, diesel fuel.</td>
  <td width="17%">CO<sub>2</sub> released to raise 1 kilogram (2.2 pound) of chicken/ fish/ eggs.
    <hr>5.96 kg<br>13 lb</td>
	<td width="17%">Loss of natural habitat potential to raise 1 kilograms (2.2 pound) of chicken/ fish/ eggs.
	  <hr>4.6 m<sup>2</sup><br>49 ft<sup>2</sup></td>
	<td width="17%">Loss of plant and animal life potential (in natural habitat) to raise 1 kilograms (2.2 pound) of chicken/ fish/ eggs.
	  <hr>14.3 kg<br>31.4 lb</td>
	<td width="17%">How many kilograms of chicken/ fish/ eggs it takes to trigger 1 potential species extinction.
	  <hr>32.7 million</td></tr>
<tr bgcolor="white">
	<td bgcolor="#FFFFE8" rowspan="1" alt="Product name." width="17%"><br>'''Dairy products - 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds)'''
	  <hr>	  
	  CO<sub>2</sub> from [http://www.soprisfoundation.org/PDFs/DailyCarbonCalcs_May08.pdf Sopris Foundation].  Includes shipping to retailer. [[#ref1]] 3%-7% is  CO<sub>2</sub> from  shipping to retailer.</td>
  <td width="17%">Some of the materials used to make 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds) of dairy.
    <hr>fertilizer, grain, water, pesticides, antibiotics, gasoline, diesel fuel.</td>
  <td width="17%">CO<sub>2</sub> released to make 1 kilogram (2.2 pound) of dairy products.
    <hr>4.13 kg<br>9.1 lb</td>
	<td width="17%">Loss of natural habitat potential to make 1 kilograms (2.2 pound) of dairy products.
    <hr>3.2 m<sup>2</sup><br>34 ft<sup>2</sup></td>
	<td width="17%">Loss of plant and animal life potential (in natural habitat) to make 1 kilograms (2.2 pound) of dairy  products.
    <hr>9.9 kg<br>22 lb</td>
	<td width="17%">How many kilograms of dairy  products it takes to trigger 1 potential species extinction.
    <hr>47 million</td></tr>
<tr bgcolor="white">
	<td bgcolor="#FFFFE8" rowspan="1" alt="Product name." width="17%"><br>'''Fruits/ Vegetables - 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds)'''<hr>
	  CO<sub>2</sub> from [http://www.soprisfoundation.org/PDFs/DailyCarbonCalcs_May08.pdf Sopris Foundation]. [[#ref1]] 6%-11% is  CO<sub>2</sub> from  shipping to retailer.</td>
  <td width="17%">Some of the materials used to grow 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds) of fruits/vegetables.
    <hr>  
         water, pesticides, fertilizer, gasoline, diesel fuel.</td>
  <td width="17%">CO<sub>2</sub> released to grow 1 kilogram (2.2 pound) of fruits/vegetables.
    <hr>1.59 kg<br>3.5 lb</td>
	<td width="17%">Loss of natural habitat potential to grow 1 kilograms (2.2 pound) of fruits/vegetables.
    <hr>1.2 m<sup>2</sup><br>13 ft<sup>2</sup></td>
	<td width="17%">Loss of plant and animal life potential (in natural habitat) to grow 1 kilograms (2.2 pound) of fruits/vegetables.
    <hr>3.8 kg<br>8.4 lb</td>
	<td width="17%">How many kilograms of fruits/vegetables it takes to trigger 1 potential species extinction.<hr> 123 million</td>
</tr><tr border="1" alt="this adds a little spacing"><td colspan="6"></td></tr></table>

== Grain fed or grass fed? ==

{{references}}

The emissions intensity of [[grain]]-fed beef is considerably lower than that of [[grass]]-fed animals, even when the full [[life-cycle]] is taken into account, but not necessarily when [[carbon sequestration]] in [[soils]] and [[vegetation]] is accounted for. Even here the situation is more complex than it appears, and accounting is tricky. The reason is that an animal fed on grains will put on weight quicker and hence be 'finished' (killed) earlier. 

Also, grain is easier to digest than grass; the animal extracts more energy from the feed and less energy is 'wasted' as methane. 

However, some people eat grass-fed beef for separate ethical reasons or health reasons (believing that the fats in the beef are healthier).

Even pasture raised animals may need grain or other supplements in times of [[drought]].

== Summary ==
The production of 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds) of beef results in about 22.1 kilograms (49 pounds) of CO<sub>2</sub> emissions - including production of grains and feed, methane released from the cow's digestion adjusted as a CO<sub>2</sub> equivalent, materials, production and shipping.[[#ref1]] The loss of natural habitat potential from 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds) of beef is estimated to be 17 square meters (183 square feet).

== Notes ==
"... a totally “localized” diet reduces GHG [green house gas] emissions per household equivalent to 1000 miles/yr (1600 km/yr) driven, while shifting just one day per week’s calories from red meat and dairy to chicken/fish/eggs or a vegetable-based diet reduces GHG emissions equivalent to 760 miles/yr (1230 km/yr) or 1160 miles/yr (1860 km/yr), respectively. Shifting totally away from red meat and dairy toward chicken/fish/eggs or a vegetable-based diet reduces GHG emissions equivalent to 5340 mi/yr (8590 km/yr) or 8100 mi/yr (13000 km/yr), respectively. [[#ref1]]

== References ==
<references />

<span id="ref1">1.</span> Sopris Foundation http://www.soprisfoundation.org/PDFs/DailyCarbonCalcs_May08.pdf

<span id="ref2">2.</span> American Chemical Society http://pubs.acs.org/doi/full/10.1021/es702969f

<span id="ref3">3.</span> Scientific American http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=the-greenhouse-hamburger February, 2009 14.8 pounds of CO<sub>2</sub> pound for pound [of beef]<br>

<span id="ref4">4.</span> Anderson, Kathryn (2007) Food,  a paper for “Toward an Ethical CO<sub>2</sub> Emissions Trajectory for Princeton”, p. 14: conventional beef averages 13.04 lb CO<sub>2</sub>e per lb ground beef.

== External links ==
[[wikipedia:Beef]]

[[Category:Environmental impact of products and services]]
[[Category:Food and agriculture]]
[[Category:Green living]]
[[Category:Life cycle analysis]]