{{AAG available project}}

==Mission and Methods==
Belize Open Source - Sustainable Development promotes environmentally and socially [[sustainable development]]. We invite people to collaborate on an open source approach to plan, implement, and participate in a land-based learning and community outreach center and working farm on our 40 acre property in northwestern Belize, near the village of August Pine Ridge.

We have established a partnering relationship with Engineers Without Borders-USA (EWB-USA).  EWB-USA has agreed to act as a fiscal agent for Belize Open Source - Sustainable Development until we obtain our 501(c)(3) status. This allows contributors to make tax deductible donations to Belize Open Source and treat appropriate supporting expenses as tax deductible donations. The partnering relationship will continue beyond approval of our 501(c)(3) status and we look forward to collaborations with [[EWB]] chapters on future projects. See news for recent developments. Log in to collaborate. 

==Tasks, Schedule and Costs==
There are many available dates and projects. 

From looking at their website it looks like you would be expected to cover your own travel and living expenses.

The following is a small selection of available projects to give you a feel for what BOS is doing.
*construct goat shelter
*Establish survey corners and property lines
*provide design for small building: shower/toilet/mudroom/adjacent  visitor/office space
*Update business and project planning documents

There are many more activities and details to be found at http://belizeopensource.org/cost_and_schedule_estimates.

==Get involved==
email pat[at]coyles[dott]com

[[Category:Belize]]
[[Category:Open source software]]