{{context needed}}

== machinima project timeline ==

17.9. - 28.11.2010

'''I. CONCEPT / APPROVAL STAGE'''

1.CONCEPTUALIZATION
A machinima about blueberry picking issue in Nordic forests - A Solidarity Film about forests, Thai-pickers and berries.

WORKING TITLE "The Blueberry Blues"

2. INVITING PEOPLE 17.9.
-Opening of SL site - Ask them about movie ideas / Title.

3.SCRIPT
Collective scripting process
ALUSTA / PLATFORM Use Appropedia and SL meetings. BLOG.

4.DESIGN STORYBOARD / PICTUREBOARD
drawings, scanned drawings, snapshots from SL
Alusta FLICKR & Second Life snapshot

5.FINAL APPROVAL OF CONCEPT / SCRIPT
-Meeting in Second Life 8/10 Friday

'''II. PRE-PRODUCTION'''

6.CREW SELECTION
Producer (Mikko Lipiäinen)Camera operator AND Scenery AND Costumes & Make-up AND Director AND Still documentary photographer AND CAMERA assistant archives shots and does running order of filming AND Production assistant (takes care when we are shooting we have necessary gear and scripts) AND Editor of post production AND SOUND (for post production) AND Writer / Script Editor / Adaptation (markus) AND Technical Advisor on Thai matters (Lek)

7. ITEMIZE GEAR TO BE USED - CAMERA, editing eqt., props and costume

8.PRELIMINARY CASTING
Director and Producer - in Second Life Meeting
22/10

9.PRODUCTION MANAGER / SCRIPT BREAKDOWN
Planning scenes in details and what needed
12/11

10.SHOT LIST
Even more detail - i.e. for each scene
12/11
11.LOCATION SCOUTING
Scouts
12/11
12.DATE SCHEDULING
12/11
13.ITEMIZE GEAR TO BE USED (camera, editing eqt, props and costumes)
12/11

14.CONFIRM LOCATIONS - in Second Life meeting
19/11

15.PRE-EDIT - SELECTS / ADD CHANGES TO STORYBOARD/PICTURE BOARDS - second Life meeting

'''III. PRODUCTION'''

16.SHOOT IT / PRODUCTION 
26/11

'''IV. POST PRODUCTION'''

17. EDITING 1 - rough version
18. Reshots as needed
19. LAY DOWN Background noise and vocals
20. MUSIC SELECTION
------ APPROVALS / SIGNOFFS
21. EDITING 2 - final version
22. ADD GRAPHICS
------ APPROVALS / SIGNOFFS
23. DELIVER MASTER
------ (CLIENT) DELIVERY [FORMATS]
24. VAULT ALL ELEMENT
25. Premiere Leeds Opening
26. ONLINE DISTRIBUTION
27. CREW PARTY
28. PREP NEXT PROJECT - animex showing / clip kino

== Description of the machinima ==

A short solidarity movie about Thai berry picking issues in Nordic Forests. The aim of the film is to creating awareness of the

Highlighting the effects of global serfdom (modern day slavery) on the peasant farmers of Thailand. 

== Links to machinima tips ==

*http://www.machinima.com/article/index
*http://www.machinima.com/article/list&type=role&id=7

Activist Films / Machinima to see for ideas etc.

*http://www.coalitionofthewilling.org.uk/
*http://saltburn.org.uk/the-force-is-with-you-2/

Other interesting references

Across America in two minutes
*http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lzRKEv6cHuk
Interactive advertisement
*http://www.youtube.com/tippexperience?ref=nf

Easy to understand idea (just concept)
*http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IOAtbWHWJqk
*http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dqof641pWys&feature=channel

Just check :]
*http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qBjLW5_dGAM



and the making of 
*http://www.travelogged.com/travelogged/2010/07/guy-walks-across-america.html

Example of an interview in Second Life
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=crPrPpAaRXo

== Script Meeting ==

28Sept2010

A mind map was done and in the Mind Map it was:


WHAT DO WE WANT TO TELL MACHINIMA
   
* Cultural Change
- citizens
- dehumanize them (Thais)
- Thai families living in Finland
- Thai / Finnish families in Finland
- Temperature .... CAMPS
-(Sleeping bags)
-(showing the reality of a camp - is it good for children?)
-(Family)
-(Why do people STILL come here even though they know there will be no money (silent motivation)
-(FORCED LOTTERY)
-(AGENTS BUROCRACY!)
* Ecological
-pic of aeroplane
-(Thaimaalaiste ja suomalaiset sanassa konessa) 
* Economy
- Greed
-Drug abuse (viz OUTLAND with Sean Connery - keep working longer with drugs)
- Baht/Euro
-play on Greed / hardworking (Buddhist / Christian cultures)
-Agents play on this & Lazy 
* Psychological side
-change inside people, feelings)
-temperature
-slavery (feeling like a slave)
-drapetomania? (OK to exploit
-Thai government
-customers
-berry industry (scandals)
* Information

*Audience
-adults
-children
-(fairy tales?)

==Script concept==

Airplane lands in Finland
alien - a Thai so like ET
Comes straight to forest as a slave
makes a little money good in Thai
but shitty in Finland
then slowly grow into landscape
So change into mosquito hat etc.

The Seventh Seal -

So diff characters pass by him and ask him to sign paper
etc.
he does not move very far

1. Suomaliset - working morals - people are lazy
2. Agent
3. Perus suomalaiset

WOBBLE to diff place

SO memory of family in Thailand - and how it is there

Ends at airport going to Thailand:

different endings:

So it could end like this....  ?
SEVERAL ENDINGS shown? what else can be shown.

Airport and rich
No money to go home
Dead in the forest


[[Category:Forest machinima]]