[[category:organizations]]
[[category:green chemistry]]
[[category:education]]

[http://www.beyondbenign.org Beyond Benign] is a non-profit organization that promotes [[sustainable science]] in order to create an environmentally, socially and economically prosperous world.

Driven by the [http://www.beyondbenign.org/greenchemistry/greenchem.html 12 Principles of Green Chemistry], a universal sustainable approach to any science; they create tools, opportunities and partnerships to support the implementation of community involvement initiatives, workplace training, cooperative programs and K-12 education resources.

Beyond Benign has three main focuses:

*''' K-12 Curriculum and Training''' – The concepts of [[Green Chemistry]] and Sustainability will be integral knowledge for all future scientists and educated citizens. They believe that education of these topics must begin at the K-12 level. Through Beyond Benign’s K-12 Curriculum and Training programs, a number of lesson plans, curriculum materials and training opportunities are presented to the K-12 educational community to aid in the implementation of science driven by the principles of Green Chemistry throughout the K-12 educational system.
* '''Community Outreach and Communications''' – Community education is an essential piece to an environmentally, socially and economically prosperous world. Beyond Benign seeks to educate the community to inspire future scientists and to create more informed consumers and voters who are able to support a growing industrial market based in concepts of Green Chemistry and sustainability.
* '''Workforce Development''' – Green Chemistry in practice implies designing safer, economical, efficacious and efficient processes and products. All of these aspects are symptoms of good product design and good manufacturing processes in industry and can result in economic benefit for industries that implement these practices. Green Chemistry can be a tool for regional economic development and jobs creation. Education and training at the academic and professional level are required to support a workforce that can sustain industries driven by the principles of Green Chemistry.