{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Vaginal delivery complications are often difficult to address in resource-poor settings where inadequate supplies and the lack of trained birth attendants often compromise a safe childbirth.  Furthermore, conventional delivery aids, such as metal forceps and suction devices, may pose a great risk to babies during complications.

==Detailed description of the solution==
Researchers at Tulane University are developing an inexpensive bidirectional membrane made of biomimetic adhesive surfaces that can be easily placed within the mother’s vagina just before delivery.  The microfabricated membrane, which allows sliding in one direction but not the other, will assure the baby’s safe and smooth passage through the birth canal, minimizing delivery complications and eliminating the need for using potentially dangerous delivery instruments.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: This device is being developed by doctoral student Lakhinder Kamboj with his team Sergey Shevkoplyas and Noshir Pesika of Tulane University.
*Manufacturer location: The product is currently being developed in New Orleans, Louisiana, USA.

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
The device is still currently under development.

==Funding Source==
$100,000 was provided to develop the device through the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation's Grand Challenges Exploration Grant.

==References==
===Other internally generated reports===
Lacoste, B. (2012, September 12). Doctoral Student Wins Gates Foundation Grant. Tulane University: Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. Retrieved February 6, 2013. Link available [https://tulane.edu/giving/news/doctoral-student-wins-gates-foundation-grant.cfm here].

===Externally generated reports===
Grand Challenges Exploration Grants.  (n.d.). Grand Challenges in Global Health. Retrieved February 6, 2013. Link available [http://www.grandchallenges.org/Explorations/Pages/GrantsAwarded.aspx?Topic=Global%20health%20solutions&Round=all&Phase=1 here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->
<s>Strike-through text</s>