{{delete| we are not doing this right?}}

[[Category: 5490-16]]

='''''Note to Readers'''''=
Please leave any comments on the Discussion page (see tab above) including additional resources/papers/links etc. Papers can be added to relevant sections if done in chronological order with all citation information and short synopsis or abstract. Thank You.

='''''Search List'''''=

*Google Scholar
*Nature
*ieeexplore 

='''''Background'''''=

==What is Bifacial PV system?==

Bifacial PV:[http://www.solarchoice.net.au/blog/news/bifacial-solar-cells-the-two-sides-of-the-story-050515] solar cells allow sunlight to enter from both sides. They typically employ a front surface design similar to that used in industry‑standard screen printed solar cells, with the major point of difference being the structure of the rear surface contact. Rather than cover the entire back surface with a reflective aluminium contact, a ‘finger’ grid is used in its place in order to allow sunlight through the rear.[1]

==Advantages of Bifacial PV==

*Confirmed increased output compared to similar PV panel with no back panels as part of the reflected light is also used for power generation giving more power per cell.

*One of the general advantages of BFPV (Bifacial PV) modules is as construction materials that can replace conventional, uni function building materials with additional properties like insulation, heat absorption and cooling.

*Noise protection is another usage of BFPV; can be used as noise barrier in a vertical BFPV setup across roads, around airports, Bus stations or Railway stations

==Ideas==

*Can we use mirror behind the panels to increase not only efficiency but space utilization as well?
*Should have less glare compared to conventional making it more safe for airports?
*wall with mirrors less reflecting material
*Possible to decrease efficiency of PV marginally in order to have more safety against glare??(playing with azimuth angle)

='''''Citations'''''=
ScienceDirect: [http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092702480800367X] 


[[User:Anurag]