Ken C Calvert http://www.coffee.20m.com/

Jan C von Enden http://www.venden.de/

January 2003

The Renertech  process for making biogas from coffee waste waters was originally developed in Papua New Guinea, whilst the Author was  Principal Research Scientist for Coffee Processing  at the PNG CIC Coffee Research Institute.   It is now under further  development  in Vietnam, at the Khe Sanh Coffee Factory in the Quang Tri Province.  The project is funded by German Aid.   Apart from coffee,  the process is good for handling large volumes of waste water containing  medium levels of organic matter which can be fermented  down to organic acids  and processed at ambient temperatures

In a matter of hours rather than days.  
 

The Coffee production  industry is, in general,  not noted for its care of the environment.  

Our key word is a generated one, ‘CLEMEG’:  Clean, Lean, Mean & Green. 

The  underlying philosophy for developing  this integrated  system was to use only naturally available substances,  and use them in the most economical way to  allow for its use in remote  underdeveloped areas with a minimum of  infrastructure and supply... 

The basis of the process was the discovery that in starting from the traditional two stage UASB process a new second stage could be inserted, whereby  a surplus of  ground raw limestone or marble chips could be used to automatically buffer a  SCVFA  solution, (short chain volatile fatty acid), largely acetate, at pH 6.1.  At the same time,  over a period of  more than five years,  a mix of psychrophylic methanogenic bacteria were isolated from coffee soils, to which had been  added the gut contents of  many cold blooded species of fish, reptiles and insects.  As a result of prolonged enrichment techniques, we now have a septic strain of anaerobes whichwill  gas freely on only coffee waste waters at low pH and at ambient temperatures.   This  anaerobic sludge  now constitutes a valuable resource for  the global coffeeindustry. It is the intention of the discoverers not to patent this process in any way and to freely disclose any new developments that come to hand, so that the coffeeindustry of the third world  may benefit.  However, for those companies and institutions who want to short circuit the  5 year  development period,  supplies of the Renertech Sludge  can be made available under a licensing agreement.  

The use of limestone chips as an acid neutralizer for a three stage UASB process, also provides the potential for reduction of carbon dioxide in the output gas by taking out half of the CO2 at the fermentation  stage.   The traditionally understood reaction for production of biogas starts from  acetic acid and produces equal amounts of methane and carbon dioxide.

 CH3 COOH  =  CH4  +  CO2 

However, neutralizing  the acid first with raw limestone  produces a molecule of carbon dioxide in the first stage, which can be got rid of  before the effluent enters the biogas digester. 

 2CH3COOH  +  CaCO3  = Ca(CH3COO)2  + CO2  + H2O 

Then,  reacting only the acetate ions,  produces only one molecule of  free carbon dioxide as against two of  methane. This makes for a raw biogas with a much higher  energy level. While this is of little gain to anyone aiming at a stripped natural gas,  for low cost ‘Village’ or ‘Institutional’ level operations with straight biogas ‘per se’, this is a considerable advantage.

 Ca(CH3COO)2  + H2O   =  2CH4  +  CO2   + CaCO3   

However, as the solubility product’s of other calcium salts,  principally phosphates and a calcium/magnesium complex called ‘Struvite’,  are much less by several orders of magnitude,  the above carbonate reaction never gets enough calcium ions left over to allow it to go to completion.   What can be said however, is that the readiness of the high levels of calcium ions in the reaction to precipitate in one form or another,  does encourage the formation of  relatively heavy granules which allow for a much faster rate of  effluent flow through the digester without losing  active material.  This would encourage us to promote the EGSB process over the UASB, but formal trials have not yet been carried out.   The practical outcome nevertheless is that  the biogas coming off a  ‘Renertech Process’ digester, is much richer in methane than a  typical UASB reaction.  This  has allowed  it to be fed directly into a diesel dual fuel engine without the necessity to strip the remaining  carbon dioxide from it first.  The wet gas is simply passed through a bed of metallic iron, to wit a drum full of  bashed up rusty tin cans, to strip out the sulphides and  reduce the moisture levels.   This  iron sulphide process is completely self regenerating  and very simple.   Once one digester is working in a new area, the high output of granular sludge seed material, due to the  struvite precipitation process,  makes start up of  further digesters  only a matter of days in stead of weeks or months. 

To achieve a 6-8 hour process turn around of waste water within the coffee industry, it is necessary to concentrate the processing waste waters by intensive recycling.  Every six to eight hours  a new tank or silo should be used to store the pulpage,(freshly pulped beans), and  a fresh batch of water  is used to restart the process.   For the next six hours that water, plus all the makeup water required, is drained out through the bottom of the tank of pulpage  and recycled back to the  machines  and the levels of sugars and enzymes allowed to build up to the point where the  water is heavily coloured and almost soupy. 

This means that all of the pulpage, particularly that at the bottom of the tank,  has received the same dose of  concentrated pectolytic enzymes at a temperature several degrees above ambient, caused by the recycling water system.    What ever hour before midnight  the silo has been  turned off, fermentation will be complete and it will be ready to be fully washed out  the following morning.   For those factories that are running a  ‘South American’ semi washed  type process, there will be a very significant lift in quality because this process gives a ‘fully washed’ output.   

The overall process  includes a full environmentally friendly clean up of  wet factory waste waters.   The Khe Sanh factory  started off  with  a very high water usage system using  a pair of Pinhalense DC3/6 pulpers  and demucilators in a semi washed process.   

This plant was converted into a fully washed process by recycling the  factory water supply,  pumping the demucilated coffee up into a stainless steel silo  and allowing the  washing and pulping water  to drain down through the silo for  up to six hours of pulping.

The water from the demucilators was discharged directly to the first stage fermenter or acid pond.   Every six hours the pulping water was changed and the coffee pumped to an alternate silo.  The first silo was back flushed  with water  which was used to kick off the next shift of pulping, the coffee was then left to soak under clean water.   The discharged recycle water, from the previous six hours,  was then also 

sent down  to the acid pond, a long  narrow concrete tank of approx 200 cubic metres,  sized to hold around one days  throughput of  heavily recycled  wash water and mucilage from pulping  more than 100 tonnes of  cherry.   When each silo full of coffee  was given a further wash the following morning,  8-10 hours after pulping,  only very clean fully fermented and washed wet parchment  was discharged.

As well as the build up of sugars and pectolytic enzymes in the recycling wash water, there was also as significant rise in temperature.            

By the time that  the dirty water has flowed down the full length of the fermentation or  acid pond , around 15-20 hours,  the pH has dropped to 3.8,  and all the mucilage has  come out of solution and floats as a thick orange scum  which is allowed to build up on the surface for several days and turn into a  thick black crust  which can be raked off  periodically and  deposited with the screened pulp solids for composting.    At the far end of the  acid pond  there  will be a clear middle layer of  yellow acid  water  under the mucilage and over  the settled solids.   This is then  pumped  on to the next stage of neutralisation.   The rate of ‘acetification’  or  fermentation to acid can be speeded up considerably by  bleeding off a small  percentage of this acid water and  mixing it back into the intake of the acid pond to create a ‘feedback’  process..  

Use was made of an old  25,000 litre  steel tank  which was three quarters filled with  screened  2-5mm  limestone chips.  Acid wash water is pumped into the bottom of the tank through a manifold  and up through  about 1.5 to 2metres depth of chips, with a residence time of  1-2 hours.  Once again  the surface  is covered with a  foam of  CO2 generated solids,  mucilage and a fine black material which  is considered to be  condensed  tannins  and polyphenolic materials which have proved in the past to  seriously restrict  the efficiency of the biogas sludge if they were not removed.    Once again, the clear solution from over the  limestone and  under the foam layer , now at a pH of more than six  can be drawn off and used  for the next stage  and the floating layer  periodically raked off and  transferred to the pulp solids for  compost.    It is import to have available facilities to flush this tank and  stir up the limestone  bed sufficiently to strip off the  biological film from the chips which will slowly choke off the flow  rate over a period of 2-3 weeks.    The use of a  wide diameter  tank with an open top would enable  the froth and  polyphenolic scum to be removed  more easily by  raking off the floating material, just like the acid pond. 

At  Khe Sanh,  the major part of  the neutralized wash water  is presently  discharged into a  constructed wet land made in three sections, which will be described later.    Because of financial constraints, only a 5000 litre  pilot scale UASB digester  is working at present.   This consists of a 3.5 metre high  stainless steel tank.   Over the inlet manifold in the bottom of the tank is a layer of more limestone chips  about 350mms deep.    Above that is  the sludge layer  which can be up to  1.5 metres deep when inactive, but fluffs up and granulates to make  a 2 metres plus deep  bed of  activated sludge.   This sludge will settle and remain  quiescent for up to 12 months  at a time.  However  at the beginning of the next season it will reactivate in  about a week.  The top portion of the tank  contains  the gas/solids/liquids separator  about 500mms under the surface of the discharge water.   It is believed that  the EGSB  process, using a taller  digester  would be  a logical progression over the present system,  but this has not been tried yet.  It is planned to build a new larger digester  of  ‘ferro-cemento’ materials for the coming season,  which will incorporate these  improvements.      Trials are presently under way to give some practical numbers  as to gas production against  tonnes of cherry, rather than  the theoretical and difficult to determine kgs. of  dried volatile solids etc.    With the great variation in  effluent strengths,  Cherry is the only real measure of inputs into the system for practical evaluation. 

The discharge effluent  from the digester passes through a small settlement tank,  mainly to  collect and recycle  escaping sludge, and then flows by gravity  to the afore mentioned wet lands.    The first pond , because of the  present heavy discharge from the  neutralizing  tank as compared to the biogas digester,  still carries a lot of BOD  and is not a good environment at present for  growing anything.  Only a few reeds and rushes survive.

The second pond  has been planted out  with local varieties of hollow stemmed reeds and rushes.  These plants  actively  pump enough oxygen  down to their roots  to allow them to survive in a totally anaerobic  environment, and they are good reducers of  both BOD and COD.   After the biogas digester, they constitute the second line of  biological  filtering.  In colder climates  much greater use would have to be made of  the  reeds and rushes  because  our third stage is relative only to tropical climates.   The tertiary filter pond  is much deeper, 1.5 metres, and is  filled with floating water hyacinth which, if the pond is big enough, should take out the majority of the  fertilizer salts, the nitrates,  potassium, condensed tannins etc, and any remaining phosphates.  At our present stage of development  however,  there is still too much  BOD coming from the acetates being discharged  from the neutralising tank, not to mention the unreacted acid from the acid pond,  to  allow the water hyacinth to thrive.  They are only  just surviving.   When they do require thinning out, there are several options available  to utilize the excess material, of which the easiest is to chop them up and  add them to the composting mix!   More biogas,  animal feedstuffs and  SCP are also possibilities   The compost is used as fertilizer to return to the coffee.  

Although this process has been developed specifically for the coffee industry, it has also kept abreast of developments in the olive processing and the red wine industry.  It is believed that  it could be adapted to any  fruit or  agricultural products industry which  has problems with  COD anthocyanins  and  high levels of fruit sugars in large volumes of cold waste processing waters.   

Along with this attempt at setting up a fully sustainable coffee processing  industry, the further  use of Vetiver grass over a period of several years,  to create a  terraced  coffee growing system, with no mechanical earthmoving required,  could  lead onto an environmentally friendly yet fully mechanized harvesting system which  can convert much of the drudgery  of excessive hand labour into much more pleasant working conditions and  a renewed image of coffee as a  progressive forward looking industry. 

== See also ==
*[[Biogas]]

== External links ==
*http://www.coffee.20m.com/The%20Renertech%20Biogas%20Process.htm


[[Category:Biogas]]
[[Category:Coffee]]