==Instructions==
Reviews that start longer discussions will be moved to a review page specific for that book.  Please post book reviews using the following format (note: the last line includes your signature and date stamp):
 <nowiki>==Book Title==</nowiki>
 *Author(s)
 *ISBN ''insert number here''
 Review
 <nowiki>--~~~~</nowiki>

==One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest==
*Ken Kesey
*ISBN 0451163966
The story created by Kesey has to be one of the most powerful illustrations of man vs machine in the history of literature. When I finished this book I was left feeling empowered. What I gathered from the book is that revolution is in fact possible but there has to be individuals willing to give it all for the betterment of others.  This book is definitely first on my top five favorites of all time, and I would go as far to say as this should be a must read for everyone. If anyone has any books they really enjoyed and hasn't read One Flew Over the Cukoo's Nest yet I would be down to trade.--[[User:Shankmetos|Shankmetos]] 11:04, 20 September 2006

==The Dharma Bums==
*Jack Kerouac
*ISBN 01400422520
Living simply as a "Dharma bum" encompasses meditation, buddhism, and freedom.  As a Dharma bum Jack Kerouac walks you through some of his later life travels with his eccentric pal Japhy Ryder (Gary Snyder is his true identity).  The story is simple, short and sweet and left me wishing for  a 100 more pages.  If you enjoy adventure and intellectual curiosity, as well as some buddhist thoughts, give this book a read. 
--[[User:Pcaradonna|Pcaradonna]] 10:58, 31 August 2006 (PDT)
 
==Cradle to Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things==
*William McDonough, Michael Braungart
*ISBN 0865475873
This book is great.  Is there such a thing as waste?  This is a must read book for anyone looking into the topic of resources.
--[[user:SeanC|SeanC]] 14:15, 25 August 2006 (PDT)
Cradle to Cradle is a book by William McDonough and german chemist Michael Braungart. It discusses new production techniques that are essentially waste free.--[[user:kory_kusick|kory_kusick]] 13:45, 16 November 2007
[[Category:PH261]]

==Engineering in Emergencies: A Practical Guide for Relief Workers==
* Jan Davis (Editor), Robert Lambert (Editor) 
* ISBN 1853395218
Put out by ITDG Publishing (Intermediate Technology Development Group Publishing) in collaboration with RedR.

==Small Is Beautiful - Economics as if People Mattered==
*[[E.F. Schumacher]]{{w|E.F. Schumacher}}
*ISBN 0060803525
First published in 1973 but still pertinent to today's issues of development. Economist E.F. Schumacher looks at the imbalance of global economics and consumption and proposes the development of [[intermediate technology]] and [[appropriate technology]] as one solution to this disparity. Response to this book led to the formation of The Intermediate Technology Development Group (now [[Practical Action]]{{w|Practical Action}}). There is also ''Small is beautiful : economics as if people mattered : 25 years later ... with commentaries'' (1999) which I have not yet read, perhaps someone else can provide a review.<br>
--[[User:Steve.mccrosky|Steve.mccrosky]] 06:48, 9 July 2007 (PDT)

==Books on Health Care==

===Making Health Care Equipment - Ideas for local design and production ===
*Adam Platt and Nicola Carter
*ISBN 1853390674 
This book provides step-by-step illustrated instructions for building equipment with various metal tubing, sheet metal, bicycle parts and wood. It includes sections on hospital furniture, [[wheelchairs]], physical and occupational therapy equipment, laboratory equipment, and maternity/infant care equipment. [[User:Steve.mccrosky|Steve.mccrosky]] 06:23, 18 September 2007 (PDT)

Available through:Sales Office, Intermediate Technology Publications Ltd (an arm of the Intermediate Technology Development Group) 103-105 Southampton Row, London WC1B 4HH England.
[[User:Steve.mccrosky|Steve.mccrosky]] 07:41, 1 July 2007 (PDT)

===Public Health Engineering in Emergency Situations===
*Medecins Sans Frontieres
*ISBN (none)
This resource was published by MSF ([[Doctors without borders]]{{w|Doctors without borders}}) in 1994. It presents schematics with step-by-step instructions for constructing large scale [[public health]] projects with a focus on displaced populations. Chapters on water, sanitation and vector control are followed by an excellent French/Spanish/English glossary of terms. Available through MSF. [[User:Steve.mccrosky|Steve.mccrosky]] 20:19, 15 July 2007 (PDT)

===Where There Is No Doctor===
*David Werner with Carol Thuman and Jane Maxwell
*ISBN 0942364155
This Book was published by the [http://www.hesperian.org/ Hesperian Foundation] in 1992. It is a health care manual for health workers, clinicians, and others involved in primary health care. It is 
also available as [http://www.hesperian.org/publications_download.php#wtnd download]. It is available in english and spanish

==Requested reviews==
Interesting books that look relevant to Appropedia:

==Interwiki links==

* [[Wikipedia:Cradle to Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things]]
* [[Wikipedia:Cradle to Cradle Design]]
* [[Wikipedia:List of environmental books]]


[[Category:Reviews]]