<!-- base of the pyramid, BoP, e-journal, emerging markets, economic development, [[sustainable development]], sustainable enterprise -->
The [[Base of the Pyramid]] (BoP) Learning Lab of the [http://www.johnson.cornell.edu/sge/ Center for Sustainable Global Enterprise] at the [http://www.johnson.cornell.edu/ Johnson School of Management, Cornell University] is accepting submissions for its [http://www.bopnetwork.org/node/105 2007 BoP e-Journal Competition]. The competition seeks to highlight the challenges of doing business in underserved markets and identify innovative business experiments or solutions to those challenges.

'''The Competition''' 
The 2007 BoP e-Journal Competition has been created to help highlight cutting-edge experiences of business innovation in underserved communities. Winning submissions will clearly articulate a business challenge that an organization working in low-income communities is striving to overcome. Experiences may be successful or unsuccessful. Organizations highlighted may be non-profit or for-profit enterprises. Initiatives highlighted should illustrate a unique approach to poverty alleviation through an innovative business model, product, service, or technology.

'''Guidelines'''
*500-1000 words
*Written in English
*Footnoted references for facts or statistics

'''Eligibility''' 
Open to all. No geographic restrictions. This competition may be of particular interest to students of business, development, journalism and the social sciences working in unique situations for the summer.

'''Awards:''' Winners will be announced on or about November 2, 2007. The award will be presented to the author(s).

*1st Place - $2000 USD
**Invitation for one author to present story at the 2007-2008 [http://www.johnson.cornell.edu/sge/boplab.html Cornell BoP Learning Lab], including round trip airfare (economy class) and accommodations
**Submission published in the BoP Learning Lab e-journal
*2nd Place - $1000 USD
**Submission published in the BoP Learning Lab e-journal
*3rd Place - $500 USD
**Submission published in the BoP Learning Lab e-journal 

'''Deadline: Midnight, Friday September 7, 2007'''

'''Submission:'''
Submit your entry online here. If internet access is unavailable or unreliable, submissions can be mailed
to BoP e-Journal Competition, 142 Sage Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853.

Inquiries: Please direct inquiries to bop@johnson.cornell.edu. The subject line should read "BoP E-Journal Competition Inquiry".

[[Category:Projects]]
[[Category:Competitions]]
[[Category:Eradicating poverty through profit]]