The '''Breakthrough Energy Coalition''' is a clean energy investment initiative backed by a number of high-profile entrepreneurs such as Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg and Richard Branson.<ref name="Guardian">http://www.theguardian.com/environment/2015/nov/30/bill-gates-breakthrough-energy-coalition-mark-zuckerberg-facebook-microsoft-amazon</ref> The aim is to promote a "new economic revolution" that has clean energy as its basis.<ref name="Guardian" /> It was launched as part of the 2015 talks on climate change in Paris.<ref name="Guardian" />

== Members ==

The Coalition is formed by over 25 investors from across 10 countries.<ref name="Guardian" /><ref>http://www.breakthroughenergycoalition.com/en/who.html</ref>

The Coalition's initiative is in conjunction with [[Mission Innovation]].<ref name="Guardian" /><ref name="Mission">http://mission-innovation.net/</ref>

== Activities of the Coalition ==

The Coalition aims to invest in early-stage clean energy companies.<ref name="Guardian" /><ref name="index" /> This will help to boost government investment in renewable energy projects.<ref name="Guardian" /><ref name="index">http://www.breakthroughenergycoalition.com/en/index.html</ref> The focus will be on supporting companies that can produce energy with near zero carbon emissions and reliable, affordable energy.<ref name="index" />

The private capital will support innovative ideas that arise from public research.<ref name="index" />

Core investment principles are:<ref name="index" />
*Invest early
*Invest broadly
*Invest boldly
*Invest wisely
*Invest together.

== Sources and citations ==
{{reflist}}
*http://www.breakthroughenergycoalition.com/en/index.html – home page of the Coalition
*http://www.breakthroughenergycoalition.com/en/who.html – members of the Coalition

[[Category:Energy]]
[[Category:Renewable energy]]