{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Asia
|Image=Cpap-4-thumb.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Respiratory failure accounts for about 4.9 million infant deaths a year in developing countries.  CPAP devices are successful in treatment but can be too expensive to be used commonly in low-resource facilities. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Breath of Life CPAP device is much cheaper (~$1000) compared to other devices that range from $4-10,000. The flows air or oxygen into airway interfaces to maintain a safe pressure in the lungs, preventing respiratory distress. The device is easy to use as health care workers only need to attach nasal prongs to the child’s nostrils in order to provide air flow.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Breath of Life
*Manufacturer (if different): Medical Technology Transfer and Services
*Manufacturer location: Vietnam

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Vietnam

==Funding Source==
East Meets West

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===

===Other internally generated reports===
CPAP (2009). Medical Technology Transfer and Services. Retrieved November 7, 2013 from [http://www.mtts-asia.com/en/products/cpap here.]

===Externally generated reports===
Sturdy CPAP for respiratory distress (2013, January 11). Retrieved November 7, 2013 from [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/sturdy-cpap-respiratory-distress here.]

Continuous positive airway pressure to assist spontaneous neonatal breathing (2013). Retrieved November 7, 2013 from [http://mnhtech.org/technology/technology-briefs/continuous-positive-airway-pressure/ here.]
===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->