===First meeting===
Our first meeting of the semester will be Wednesday September 10th from 2-3pm in SCI 164.  We will give a brief presentation regarding who we are and what our goals are, followed by officer elections and confirming the constipation.

===Greg Mortenson===
Has built many schools in Packistan and wrote the book "Three Cups of Tea" is giving a [http://www.threecupsoftea.com/BookTour2008.php#SanFran3 talk on the 8th] of September at Freshman Read, USF Main Campus, McLaren Conference Center, Golden Gate Avenue (between Masonic & Parker), San Francisco, CA.  The event is free & open to public.  No reservations, arrive early

===Facebook===
We have a facebook group started for [http://www.new.facebook.com/group.php?gid=24061328663 BRIDGE Nicaragua]

===Couches===
BRIDGE Nicaragua is helping to organize the first annual [http://www.opensustainabilitynetwork.org Open Sustainability Conference] on October 18th and 19th at San Francisco State University.  You can help us by spreading the word our offering up your [[OSNCon/Couches | couch]] to an out-of-towner.

===Saturday lunch===
The Saturday Lunch is canceled on the 6th of September, try back next weekend.

===501c3===
We are looking for an existing 501c3 nonprofit organization willing to provide us with "fiscal sponsorship" as we go through the lengthy and expensive application process with the IRS.  If you know of an interested organization, we would love to hear from them.

===Pictures===
We have [http://picasaweb.google.com/bridge.nica/Aug2008 pictures] from our first trip up.

===Officer Positions===
We are looking to fill the following officer positions, so come to the first meeting and volunteer.

*Secretary - this person would take notes at meetings and club functions and post them here.

*Web guru - we are hoping to develop a snazzy HTML home page to welcome visitors

*Special Event Coordinator - Is in charge of facilitating monthly members meetings which will include speakers and movies.

*Recruiter - In charge of tabling schedule and creating events which increase interest in BRIDGE Nicaragua.

*Local Project Coordinator - this person will arrange local projects.

*Fundraiser - In charge of facilitating fund raising events

*Conference facilitator(s) - BRIDGE Nicaragua is hosting the first OSN conference on October 18th and this will require a whole lot of leg work around campus in September - the more people we can get involved in this, the better.
{{catneeded}}