{| cellpadding="8" cellspacing="0"
|- valign="top" 
| style="background:white" width="52%"|
{{PhotowantedCASwikiUK}}
== Sustainability initiatives ==
*[http://lowimpact.org Low-Impact Living Initiative] (based in Buckinghamshire), dedicated to helping protect the global environment by promoting sustainable alternatives to various aspects of everyday life. Lili have produced a number of [http://lowimpact.org/factsheets.htm information sheets] which are available as PDFs.
*[http://communityactionmk.org/projects/mksmart/ MK:Smart], bringing together data, enterprise and communities to transform energy, transport and water use in Milton Keynes. "Have you got a great idea for our city? We want your innovative ideas and you to help develop these ideas into citizen-led projects. If you have an idea or want to have your say on other people’s ideas visit [https://ourmk.org/ www.ourmk.org]"
*[http://transitionmk.blogspot.co.uk/ Transition MK]
*[http://www.transition-wycombe.org.uk/ Transition Town High Wycombe]

{{#widget:YouTube|id=OI1aC9F2FxY}}

== Initiatives by topic ==

=== Biodiversity ===

[http://www.bbowt.org.uk/ Berks, Bucks & Oxon Wildlife Trust] 

=== Community energy ===

[http://capeproject.co.uk/ CAPE], Community Action Platform for Energy project will develop an interactive website designed to assess energy use for individuals and communities in Milton Keynes - [http://www.wolvertoncommunityenergy.uk/ Wolverton Community Energy], community owned energy hub rooted in historical Wolverton, a fragment of Victorian history in the heart of Milton Keynes.

=== Community and voluntary action ===

[http://communityactionmk.org/ Community Action: MK] answers enquiries for and about the voluntary and community sector in Milton Keynes. "We also provide information about all aspects of running a voluntary or community group, and can signpost you to other support and information. Community Action: MK also provides information and support about the city’s growth, and will be looking to support the new communities moving into the city."

=== Cycling activism ===

[[wikipedia:Milton Keynes redway system]]

=== Sustainable transport activism ===

'''Walking''':  Wikipedia: [[wikipedia:Category:Footpaths_in_Buckinghamshire|Footpaths in Buckinghamshire]] (category)

'''Waterways''':  [http://www.aylesburycanal.org.uk/ Aylesbury Canal Society], ([[wikipedia:Aylesbury Canal Society|Wikipedia]]) -  [http://www.wendoverarmtrust.co.uk/ Wendover Arm Trust] restoring the Wendover Arm of the Grand Union Canal

| style="background:khaki" |

__TOC__

== News and comment ==

'''2016'''

Funding for Citizen Innovators, Sep <ref>[http://transitionmk.blogspot.com/2016/09/funding-for-citizen-innovators.html Transition MK]</ref>

'''2015''' 

Local environmental group Transition MK celebrate MK’s commitment to low carbon living! November 30 <ref>[http://communityactionmk.org/2015/11/30/local-environmental-group-transition-mk-celebrate-mks-commitment-to-low-carbon-living/ communityactionmk.org]</ref> 

:Local environmental group, Transition MK, are celebrating two successful events which aimed to raise local people’s awareness of climate change and encourage residents of Milton Keynes to take action to show their support for more sustainable living.

== Resources ==

=== Maps ===

[http://www.mkweb.co.uk/Visitor-Information/Redway-Maps/Milton-Keynes-Redway-Map.htm?ID=55401 Maps of the Redway system]

=== Networks ===
*[http://www.citizensmk.org.uk/  Citizens:mk], a growing alliance of diverse community groups – churches, mosques, schools and community associations – working together for a better Milton Keynes.
*[http://www.mkpeaceandjustice.org.uk/ MK Peace and Justice Network]

== Interwiki links ==
Wikipedia: [[wikipedia:Buckinghamshire|Buckinghamshire]]


'''References'''
{{Attrib sca ref|Buckinghamshire}}
<references/>
|}


{{scaendmenu}}
[[category:Sustainable community action]]
[[category:South East England]]