'''CHILLY'''
DRYING OF CHILLIES Harvesting By definition 'processing' does not involve harvesting. However, one cannot produce a good quality product from badly harvested materials. Correct harvesting techniques could be said to be the most important factor in the production of a high quality final product. For processing, chillie should not be picked until it starts going red. Cleaning The crop should be cleaned before processing. The first stage is to remove dust and dirt using a winnowing basket. This can be made locally from bamboo, palm or other leaves. Someone used to this work can remove the dust, dirt and stones quickly and efficiently (eg they could clean 100kg of chillie in an eight hour day). Small machines are available for cleaning but they are rarely cost effective. After winnowing the crop needs to be washed in water, all that is needed are two or three 15 litre buckets. For larger quantities a 1m sink/basin with a plug hole needs to be constructed.  This can be made out of concrete. However, the water must be changed regularly to prevent recontamination by dirty water. Only potable water should be used. Drying This is by far the most important section in the process. The inability to adequately dry the produce will, at the very least slow down the whole process and possibly lead to mould growth or discolouration. Any produce with even a trace of mould cannot be used for processing. The sale value of mouldy chillie can be less than 50% the normal value. In extreme cases the whole crop 
can be lost 
==.==
Drying during the dry season During the dry season, sun drying is usually adequate to dry the produce.  The simplest and cheapest method is to lay the produce on mats in the sun. However, there are problems associated with this method. Dust and dirt are blown onto the crop and unexpected rain storms can re-wet the crop.  Figure 1: Figure 2: 
Drying of Chillies    A solar dryer avoids these problems. The simplest type is the cabinet solar dryer, see Figure 1, which can be constructed out of locally available materials (eg bamboo, coir fibre or nylon weave). For larger units (over 30kg/day an 'Exell Solar Dryer' could be used, see Figure 2. However, the construction costs are greater and a full financial evaluation should therefore be made to ensure that a higher income from better quality spices can justify the additional expense. Drying during the wet season During the wet season or times of high humidity, which often coincides with the harvest of the spices, a solar dryer or sun drying can not be used effectively. An artificial dryer, which uses a cheap energy source is necessary. This may be a wood or husk burning dryer or a combined wood burning and solar dryer. Figures 3-6 show a combined wood burning and solar drier which is based on the McDowell Dryer and has been used in Sri Lanka.  Figure 4 Figure 3 Figure 5  Figure 6 
Drying of Chillies    Over drying Care needs to be taken to prevent over drying of the crops. A drier operator will soon learn how to assess the moisture content of the crops by hand. The final moisture content should be 10% wet basis. Grading In some cases the crop needs to be graded, eg high quality packaged products. Chillie is graded by colour and size this is done by hand. The brighter the red colour the better. Grinding Grinding may also add value but must be done carefully as there are difficulties. A whole, intact product can be easily assessed for quality whereas a ground product is more difficult.  There is a market resistance to ground produce due to fear of adulteration. This can only be overcome by producing a consistently high quality product and gaining the confidence of customers. There are basically two types of grinders - manual grinders and mechanical grinders. A grinding mill has to be placed in a separate and well-ventilated room because of dust. Manual grinding mills There are many manual grinders that could be used to grind chillie (see equipment suppliers at the end). An experienced operator can grind about 20kg in an eight hour day. However, this is hard and boring work. A treadle or bicycle could easily be attached to the grinder which will make the work easier. With this system one person could grind about 30kg in one day. Work needs to be done to find out the degree of fineness the consumer wants. The grinding mills then need to be set so that they produce the desired ground product. For small-scale production, (up to 100kg/day) a series of these grinders is all that is needed. For larger scale production units, a mechanical grinder would be required. Mechanical grinding mills Horizontal plate, vertical plate or hammer mills are suitable for grinding chillie. A grinding mill has to be placed in a separate and well-ventilated room because of the dust. As above the grinding mill needs to be adjusted so that it grinds the chillie to the desired fineness. Packaging Packaging material Packaging of these products, especially if they are ground requires polypropylene. Polythene cannot be used as the flavour components diffuse through it. Simple sealing The bags can be sealed simply by folding the polypropylene over a hacksaw blade and drawing it slowly over the flame of a candle. However, this is extremely uncomfortable as the hacksaw blade heats up and burns the hands of the operator. However, this is a very common technique. Sealing machines A sealing machine will speed this operation up considerably and produce a much tidier finish 
Drying of Chillies    (which is very important). The cheapest sealing machines have no timing mechanism to show when the bag is sealed and they have a tendency to overheat. Sealing machines with timers are desirable. The machines come in many sizes . For most work an 8 inch (20cm) sealer is sufficient . Eye catching labels should be sealed above the product in a separate compartment and holed so the package can be hung-up in the shop. Storage A well designed and secure store is essential. The optimal conditions for a store are: low temperature, low humidity and free from pests. The store should be located in a shaded, dry place. To keep humidity as low as possible only fully dried products should be stored in it. The produce should be checked regularly and if it has absorbed too much moisture it should be dried again. To prevent pests entering, the roof should be completely sealed. Mosquito netting should be placed over the windows and doors should be close fitting. Equipment suppliers Note: This is a selective list of suppliers and does not imply ITDG endorsement. 
==Hand operated mills==
Hand operated grinding mill Tissa Industries 71 Sunetra Devi Road Kohuwela Colombo Turma grinder Hindustan Engineering Company 25/31 Ropewalk Street Fort Bombay India 
==Small domestic mill==
ETS Champencis Chamamculley France Atlas No 1 handpower grinding mill R J Hunt &amp; Company Limited c/o Bentall Simplex Industries Limited Foxhills Industrial Estate Scunthorpe DN15 8QW United Kingdom UK Type No 2 hand mill  Cecozo P O Box 9 Ibarachi City Osaka 567 
==, ==
Japan 
==Mechanical mills==
Tissa Bran 6" grinder (with motor) Tissa Brand 12" grinder (with motor) Tissa Industries 71 Sunetra Devi Road Kohuwela Columbo Cibler FFC 15 (with motor) Cibler FFC 23 (with motor) Jimo Agricultural Machiner Works Shandong Province China Pulco Star grinder (with motor) Sabo Engineering Rajastan India 
==Sealing machines==
Doboy Limited 2 Blaydon Road Sandy SG19 1RB Tel: + 44 (0)1767 82911 Fax: +44 (0)1767 291763 
==Hulme Martin Limited==

Drying of Chillies    6 Brownlow Mews Guilford Street London WC1N 2LD Tel: +44 (0)20 7242 5448 Fax: +44 (0)20 7242 2044 Thames Packaging Equipment Company Senate House Tyseen House London E8 2ND Tel: +44 (0)20 7254 7132 Fax: +44 (0)20 7241 0559 Gardners Corporation 6 Doctors Lane P B No 299 New Delhi 110 001 India Tel: 344287 Kaps Engineers 831 GIDC Makapura Vadodara 390 010 India Tel: 43178 Samarpan Fabricators Pvt Limited Plot A 182/A 183 Lane 2 Road 16 Wagle Industrial Estate Thane 400 604 India Tel: 594842 Shaco Enterprises 161/163 R R Mohan Roy Road Pharthana Samaj Bombay 400 004 India Tel: 364646 Chinar (Pvt) Limited Plot 33 St 10 Sector 1-9 Islamabad Pakistan Tel: 51 411181 FMC Corporation Machinery International Division  P O Box 1178 San Jose California 95108 USA China Light Corporation Economic and Technical Co-op Tianjin Company 10 Youyi Road Tianjin China Tel: 756287 / 750360 Doboy Iberica SA Rio Escalona 25 Valencia 46023 Spain Tel: 96 3619412 Fax: 96 3693239 Adelphi Manufacturing Company Limited Olympus House Mill Green Road Haywards Heath RH16 1XQ United Kingdom Tel: 01444 440091 Fax: 01444 440272 AI Packaging Materials Limited 85-105 Stainsley Road London E14 6JT United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0)20 7987 6361 Fax: +44 (0)20 7987 3050 
[[Category:ITDGbotpage]]