{{MOST}}
{{MOST-InGaN}}
{{Lit}}
This page describes many potential applications of using <math>[11\bar{2}2]</math> plane for InGaN based PV, LED, LASER diodes and other applications. Its important to know that role of crystal orientation plays a vital role is determining the overall properties and behavior of electronic structure especially when the material is polar/ piezoelectric material like ZnO, GaN, InGaN etc.

Some of interesting properties of InGaN <math>[11\bar{2}2]</math> plane are as following.

* Semi polar plane: [plane such as [0001] are highly polar, whereas plane such as <math>[10\bar{1}0]</math> are non polar. Highly polar planes have disadvantage of large number of recombination states caused by stain in the crystal, whereas non polar lane are having large number of non-radiative recombination centers. Semipolar planes, as the name suggest have the polarization effects in between those of highly polar planes and non-polar plane. This property can be utilize to optimize the internal quantum efficiency of electronic devices based on InGaN/ GaN materials.
* Their is a large reduction in recombination centers which is the main cause of poor efficiency.
* Significant reduction in threading dislocations, as they mostly grow in [0001] plane and bent by 90 degree in <math>[11\bar{2}0]</math> plane.
* most optimized efficiency can be achieved by utilizing these planes as they reduce the number of TDs and recombination centers.
* Higher In Incorporation is possible for the same growth conditions as compared to [0001] plane.
* Almost twice internal quantum efficiency can be achieved by using <math>[11\bar{2}2]</math> plane. 


[[Category:MOST]]