{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality, Type II Diabetes, Cardiovascular diseases
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, South America
|Image=Clinitek3.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
People with diabetes, including gestational diabetes and hypertension, are at risk for developing kidney disease which could lead to eventual kidney failure and death. This is hard to predict in patients who do not regularly check the status of their kidney function.  Therefore, some may undergo serious kidney damage without knowledge or diagnosis.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The CLINITEK microalbumin strip tests give an accurate reading of the albumin and creatine ratios in one minute. This device makes it possible to test for early kidney disease in patients with diabetes or hypertension because these strips have increased sensitivity detecting albumin levels as low as 20mg/dL.  Early detection can lead to prompt treatment to prevent further kidney damage.

==Designed by==
*Manufacturer: Siemens

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
This product was tested in France in 2001. It is available globally.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Floch, J. L., Marre, M., Rodier, M., & Passa, P. (2001). Interest of Clinitek Microalbumin in screening for microalbuminuria: results of a multicentre study in 302 diabetic patients. . Diabetes Metab, 27(1), 36-9.

Graziani, M. S., Gambaro, G., Mantovani, L., Sorio, A., Yabarek, T., Abaterusso, C., et al. (2008). Diagnostic accuracy of a reagent strip for assessing urinary albumin excretion in the general population. Nephrol. Dial. Transplant., 24(5), 1490-1494.

===Other internally generated reports===
CLINITEK Microalbumin 2 Reagent Strips. (n.d.). Siemens. Retrieved November 10, 2012, from [http://www.healthcare.siemens.com/point-of-care/urinalysis/clinitek-microalbumin-2-reagent-strips here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->