{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Malaria
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia
|Image=Co2 light trap.png
|Image Caption=CDC traps placed in an African house during experiments
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Many mosquitos in tropical and subtropical regions carry protists that cause malaria in humans.  The mosquitos are abundant in these regions because of the optimal climate. Hence, there is a need to control mosquitos’ habitat to prevent malaria spread.
==Detailed description of the solution==
Since mosquitos are attracted to light sources as well as CO2, they are drawn in to the CO2-baited CDC light traps.  Reducing the number of mosquitos near houses and villages will help prevent bites that could cause malaria. 
==Designed by==
*Designed by: W. Daniel Sudia and Roy Chamberlain in 1960 

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Tested in Kenya (Mwea division in Kirinyaga District), Republic of Korea (Paju County, Kyonggi Province), and Taiwan

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
* Smallegange, Renate C., et al. (2010.) Sugar-fermenting yeast as an organic source of carbon dioxide to attract the malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae. Malar J 9: 292. Link Available [http://www.malariajournal.com/content/pdf/1475-2875-9-292.pdf here]

*  Chen, Y-C et al. (2011.) Comparison of the efficacy of CO2-baited and unbaited light traps, gravid traps, backpack aspirators, and sweep net collections for sampling mosquitoes infected with Japanese encephalitis virus. Journal of vector ecology journal of the Society for Vector Ecology 36.1: 68-74. Link Available [http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1948-7134.2011.00142.x/asset/j.1948-7134.2011.00142.x.pdf?v=1&t=he9d665a&s=69ad78bb623fc718c99f7baa9237d83f37acc16a here]

*  Muturi, Ephantus J., et al. (2007.) Evaluation of four sampling techniques for surveillance of Culex quinquefasciatus (Diptera: Culicidae) and other mosquitoes in African rice agroecosystems." Journal of medical entomology 44.3: 503-508. Link Available [http://www.bioone.org.proxy.lib.umich.edu/doi/pdf/10.1603/0022-2585%282007%2944%5B503%3AEOFSTF%5D2.0.CO%3B2 here]

*  Burkett, Douglas A., et al. (2002.) Late season commercial mosquito trap and host seeking activity evaluation against mosquitoes in a malarious area of the Republic of Korea. The Korean journal of parasitology 40.1: 45-54. Link Available [http://synapse.koreamed.org/Synapse/Data/PDFData/0066KJP/kjp-40-45.pdf here]


<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->