{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality 
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa, Asia
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Twelve percent of newborns need to receive immediate treatment for severe jaundice. This problem can be solved through the use of phototherapy treatment, but in low-income settings existing phototherapy options are often ineffective, costly, difficult to maintain, and improperly used.
==Detailed description of the solution==
Comet is a low-cost, high-performance, and compact jaundice treatment device intended to be used in rural clinics or as a backup for urban hospitals. This device is a cheaper, smaller and more energy-efficient device than Brilliance, another phototherapy device developed by the same design team. Comet utilizes high intensity light-emitting diodes (LEDs) which provide the intense blue light to treat jaundice. Comet has a lifespan of 3-5 years, requires minimal maintenance, and is designed to retail at less than $150.   
==Designed by==
*Designed by:Design Revolution: Design for the Other Ninety Percent
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location: Palo Alto, CA, USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
 India and Nepal
==Funding Source==
Finalist in Saving Lives at Birth Competition
One Heart World-Wide

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===

===Other internally generated reports===
Hong, M. (2013, October 07). [Web log post]. Retrieved from http://blog.d-rev.org/
===Externally generated reports===
Cheaper, greener blue light: A better phototherapy device for jaundice treatment. Retrieved from https://www.engineeringforchange.org/news/2011/02/01/cheaper_greener_blue_light_a_better_phototherapy_device_for_jaundice_treatment.html

Comet: Effective, compact, and low-cost phototherapy to treat newborn jaundice. (August 8, 2012). Retrieved from http://savinglivesatbirth.net/summaries/163
===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->