{{TOCright}}{{Photowantedsca}}
== What communities can do ==
* create and develop [[community resources]]
* Local environmental projects
* partnership working
* alliances and coalitions
* Advocate expenses for volunteers, so that no-one should be out of pocket from volunteering, and it isn't something just for those that can afford it
* Make a gift of <u>your time</u> as a Christmas, birthday or other present to someone (for example some kind of volunteering toward a particular cause they may be passionate about)

== Why it matters ==

Community and voluntary action can contribute to resilient, thriving, empowered and unique communties.

Community and voluntary action for sustainability has common and overlapping interest with the wider community and voluntary sector. Both have an interest in the capacity and well-being of the sector as a whole - the extent to which community and voluntary action, especially at the local level, can thrive.

Both can be allies within partnerships. Representatives form the more formal voluntary sector have a wealth of experience, whilst sustainability brings a unifying vision. At the local level, in different areas different kinds of agencies may be the most natural allies, or potential allies, to local action for sustainability. In the UK for example, in some areas it may be Councils for Voluntary Service, in others it may be Volunteer Centres or Rural Community Councils.

== Resources ==

{{#widget:YouTube|id=icQ2hG3Z2kg}}

*[http://www.helpfromhome.org/ Help From Home] website enabling Micro-volunteering {{W|Micro-volunteering}}, easy home based volunteering actions

=== Quotes ===

"We are social creatures, our behaviours are shaped and constrained by social norms and expectations. Negotiating change is best pursued at the level of groups and communities. Social support is particularly vital in breaking habits, and in devising new social norms and more sustainable patterns of consumption. Government can play a vital role in nurturing and supporting community based social change." Professor Tim Jackson, University of Surrey

== News and comment ==

'''2016'''

Volunteering from home will become as commonplace as working from home <ref>[http://www.nesta.org.uk/news/2017-predictions nesta.org.uk] ''date not found''</ref>

== See also ==
*{{localtopic}}
*[[Communities online]]
*[[Community currencies, sustainable community action]]
*[[Community involvement]]
*[[Community resources]]
*[[Community safety]]
*[[Localism]]
*[[Networks]], [[Networks, news and comment]], [[Transition Network]]
*[[Rural sustainability]]
*[[Sharing]]
*[[Social inclusion]]
*[[Urban sustainability]]

== Interwiki links ==
Wikipedia: [[wikipedia:Local community|Local community]], [[wikipedia:Micro-volunteering|Micro-volunteering]]

== External links ==
*[http://www.helpx.net/ Help Exchange] (HelpX)
*[http://www.wwoof.net/ WWOOF], World Wide Opportunities on Organic Farms, or Willing Workers on Organic Farms, is a loose network of national organizations that facilitate placement of volunteers on organic farms. While there are WWOOF hosts in 99 countries around the world, no central list or organization encompasses all WWOOF hosts. As there is no single international WWOOF membership, all recognised WWOOF country organizations strive to maintain similar standards, and work together to promote the aims of WWOOF. {{W|WWOOF}}
*[http://www.workaway.info/ Workaway.info] one of three international organizations that enable travelers willing to work as volunteers to contact hosts (who can be individuals, families or groups) wanting help with their projects or activities. Similar to HelpX and Volunteers Base, volunteers or 'workawayers', are expected to contribute a pre-agreed amount of time per day in exchange for lodging and food provided by their host. {{W|Workaway}}


{{scaendmenu}}
[[category:Sustainable community action topics]]


'''References'''
{{Attrib sca ref|Community and voluntary action}}
<references/>