{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Waterborne diseases 
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Cookit.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Cholera is a growing epidemic in many places in the world with limited or no access to clean water. Cholera, and other waterborne infections, can be effectively prevented by pasteurization, but many current devices are costly, or require fuel or electricity. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
CooKit is a commercial solar-powered cooker. It is composed of cardboard and foil in a shape that most efficiently reflects sunlight. A heat-resistant bag must be placed around the pot in order to retain heat. When not in use, CooKit folds to the size of a notebook.

==Relevance to developing country settings==
While CooKit has wide-spectrum applicability, especially for campers and the environmentally conscious, it has been designed with developing world health in mind. CooKit is now manufactured independently in 25 countries, and users have the option to build their own with detailed instructions online, or to order a pre-made cooker from Solar Cooker International's website. The device costs between $2-$7 to build.

==Manufacturing==
*Manufacturer: Solar Cookers International
*Manufacturer location: USA and Kenya
 
==Funding Source==
Solar Cooker International is a non-profit NGO. It receives funding through donations, private institutions and through direct sales of its products. 

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Safapour N, Metcalf RH. Enhancement of solar water pasteurization with reflectors. Appl Environ Microbiol. 1999 Feb; 65(2):859-61.

===Internally generated reports===
Solar Cookers International. (2011). Annual Report. PDF available [http://solarcooking.org/SCI-Annual-Report-2011.pdf here].

===Externally generated reports===
Bontkes JS and Jongloed W. The CooKit: Its introduction, acceptation and follow-up in Gorom-Gorom (Northern Burkina Faso). PDF available [http://images3.wikia.nocookie.net/solarcooking/images/f/f1/CooKit_Acceptance_Burkina_Faso_2006.pdf here].