Corn flakes are food made by combining corn with sugar, vitamins and minerals to make them as nutritious as possible. For producing the fancy flakes specially designed flaker will be used. At present, corn flakes are popularly known as breakfast food in the world at large and generally taken with milk. Maize is the major raw material used for the manufacture of corn flakes.

Currently corn flakes is consumed by the international community, and a portion of middle and upper income groups of the urban population. The effective demand could increase to a greater extent if the price of the product is reduced together with proper promotional activities.

'''Production Process:'''

The milling process removes the corn kernels from the cobs and turns them into flaking sized 'grits'. Malted barley can be added to enhance the flavor of the Corn Flakes. The corn grits are cooked in steam pressure cookers, at temperatures exceeding 100C. This cooking process lasts for an hour and softens the hard grits. During cooking additional water is incorporated in the
form of steam which condenses and the water content in the batch rises to 30-35%. Then the hot grits are transported from the cookers to large driers via the network of pipes. The grits spend several hours in the hot-air driers in order to reduce their moisture content. The corn grits are milled using rollers, which squeeze the grits flat.

The flakes are then tumble toasted in huge cylindrical ovens. The air in the ovens is heated by 600 degree celsius gas flames and the flakes are tossed around in a rotating drum. The drum is angled so that the flakes whirl around and pass through it quite quickly, and stops them spending too long in the fierce heat. The flakes are then coated with chocolate on demand and also sprayed with flavors,minerals to make them as nutritious as possible. The Corn flakes are then bagged up with the
help of a bagging machine, which uses rolls of polythene.

The alternative technology is related to the volume of production. That is, for a large quantity of production (such as 600-800kg/hr) the alternative option is more appropriate. This choice requires a fully automated system at all steps-in production, packaging and boxing. It is suitable to the largest volume markets that may require exporting to neighboring countries. Nonetheless, for a capacity of production envisaged by the plant under study, such choice of technology is not
feasible.

[[Category:Food preparation]]