<!--- Ideally, these returns (line breaks) would be removed, but luckily MediaWiki ignores them. --->

:by [[Graham Burnett]]

Steven Covey's stuff is about developing 'habits' that can make us more
effective in whatever life-goals we are trying to achieve. A lot of
the stuff was derived from a 'business' model, and is a
bit 'American' if you know what I mean -- you'll find Covey's books in
the 'Business & Management' section of WH Smith as well as the 'self-
help' section -- which made me quite resistant at first -- but if you
too harbour those sort of prejudices it's worth overcoming them and
checking out his ''Seven Habits of Highly Effective People'' where you
will find much that can be transfered to [[permaculture|permacultural]] practice.

==Summary==

Most of us (by 'us' I mean society at large) have learned habits
through our culture, upbringing, etc that tend to make us
ineffective, we tend to focus on problems, get caught up
with 'negative' campaigning, don't manage our time effectively,
behave competitively, etc, etc. Covey argues that just as
these 'bad' habits have been learned and become ingrained, we can
learn and develop 'good habits' that increase our chances of being
effective within our lives, and in achieving both personal and
public 'victory'.

* '''HABIT 1; Be proactive, or 'seek to act before you are acted upon'.'''
This is about being being PROactive rather than REactive, and
introduces the idea of 'circles of concern' and 'circles of
influence'. We are all CONCERNED about many things, war in Iraq,
nuclear power, global warming might be examples, but many of these
we can't directly influence or do much about. If however we tend to
focus our enegies and time on the things we CAN directly influence
(our own gardens, local food sourcing, local community projects,
personal relationships, etc), our circles of influence will tend to
expand outwards. To me this principle mirrors very much the
permaculture tool of Zoning (and the diagram in Covey's book
resembles it too!), where we remember Mollisons quote about 'start at
the end of your nose', and focus our energies on the things closest
to the house or that is closest to us.

* '''HABIT 2; Begin with the end in mind'''- 
This principle is about visualising where we want to get to- research has shown that most high achieving athletes, etc, have very clear and detailed visualisations of
themselves crossing the finishing line. It's also about
being 'principle centred'- working from core ethics and beliefs
rather than more short term motivations like money, imeadiate
pleasure, status, etc. So habit 2 asks us to spend time developing a
very clear vision of where we want to go and why- in effect to
develop a personal 'Mission Statement'. Again, parallels with
the 'What is your long term goal?' question used in Permaculture
Action Learning sessions (and the one we are meant to spend the most
time addressing during AL sessions...).

* '''HABIT 3; Put First Things First'''- 
Based upon effective time management. Basically how we use our time can be broken down into four categories or quadrants; Tasks that are URGENT and IMPORTANT (crises, pressing problems, deadline driven projects) Tasks that are NOT URGENT and IMPORTANT (forward planning, relationship building, establishing routine maintainance systems,
focusing on principles (eg, creating mission staement or vision support, adequate recreation and self care, etc, etc) Tasks that are URGENT but NOT IMPORTANT (interuptions, some phone calls, some meetings, etc) Tasks that are NOT URGENT and NOT IMPORTANT (trivia, 'looking busy', wasting time, office gossiping, computer games, etc). Most peolpe tend to spend their time in quadrants 1, 3 & 4, leading
to short term fixes, crisis management culture and 'putting out
fires' at best. Effective time management OTOH is about putting most
of our efforts into quadrant 2, ie, spending lots of time designing
effective support systems. Again parralel to the permaculture 80:20
principle, ie, that we spend 80% of our energy in designing and
setting up a robust and durable system and 20% maintaining it,
rather than 20% setting up and 80% maintaining as is
the 'destructoculture' norm.

* '''HABIT 4; Think Win Win'''. 
Look for mutually benefical relationships where everybody benefits. Co-operation not competition, not just
as a happy side effect in some situations, but as a fundemental core
value in all dealings with others. PC equivalent- guilds and
stacking and beneficail associations.

* '''HABIT 5: Seek To Understand Before You Seek To Be Understood.''' IOW
Learn to listen to others, and truly understand their point of view.
Properly, not just make assumptions about what you THINK others
think, nor to be prejudicial. Again, listening isn't always a skill
that comes easily to us in this culture, but listening skills can be
learned- but of course us permaculture designers all know that don't
we through our design client interviews, Action Learning support
group methods and of course the good ol' Think & Listen tool...

* '''HABIT 6: Synergise.''' 
The whole is greater than the sum of the parts. When we come from a 'win:win' paradign and learn to listen to the other person, not only do we create mutaully relationships that are beneficail to both parties, often we can create something that is much better for all. Just as flour, eggs, water, oil, sugar and dried fruit are all very well and good on their own, bring them together in the right way and you create a delicious cake! Again, parallels with PC principles- it's not the number of elemnts but the
number of benefical connections that can be made between them... Also [[edge]].

* '''HABIT 7: Sharpen The Saw.''' IOW [[Permaculture ethics|peoplecare]] or self-care. 
Covey tells the story of a woodsman he met cutting down a tree. The man was
exhausted and straining away with a saw that was getting blunter and
blunter. Covey said, "why don't you stop to sharpen your saw?" The
man replied breathlessly, "I can't, I haven't got the time..." Covey
reminds us that to be truly effective we have to 'balanced self-
renewal', paying attention to self care in areas such as spiritual,
mental, emotional and physical development.

==Further reading==

* ''The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People''' - Steven Covey

{{attrib permawiki|Covey's_7_habits_of_Highly_Effective_People}}

[[Category:Community]]
[[Category:Permaculture]]