{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa
|Image=P1010407-4-284x300.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Women in resource-limited settings are seven times more likely to develop pre-eclampsia than women in developed countries. Regular blood pressure (BP) monitoring is a cost-effective means of identifying such hypertensive diseases in their early stages. However, medical facilities in resource-limited settings lack the ability to take accurate BP measurements.

==Detailed description of the solution==
CRADLE is a cheap, automated blood pressure monitor that is a feasible and sustainable solution to accurately measure blood pressure in rural antenatal clinics. The device generates reliable results and requires minimal training, and also features a prolonged battery life. In addition, the device has been proven to yield high levels of user satisfaction and good durability.

==Designed by==

*Designed by: Andrew Shennan, professor of Obstetrics at Kings College London

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Ethiopia, Tanzania, and Zimbabwe

==Funding Source==
Grand Challenges Fund awarded by Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
Maternity Worldwide
Tommy’s

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Baker, E. C., Hezelgrave, N., Magesa, S. M., Edmonds, S., de Greeff, A., & Shennan, A. (2012). Introduction of automated blood pressure devices intended for a low resource setting in rural tanzania. Tropical Doctor,42(2), 101-103. doi:10.1258/td.2011.110352; 10.1258/td.2011.110352

===Externally generated reports===
Community blood pressure monitoring for pregnancy hypertension in rural Africa: the CRADLE (formerly COBRA) project. (2012, December). Retrieved from [http://www.tommys.org/page.aspx?pid=358 here]

Community blood pressure monitoring in rural Africa: Detection of underlying pre-eclampsia (CRADLE) . (n.d.). Retrieved from [http://www.maternityworldwide.org/what-we-do/cradle/ here]

Community BP monitoring to detect pre-eclampsia in Africa. (2010, November). Retrieved from [http://www.grandchallenges.org/Explorations/Pages/GrantsAwarded.aspx?Topic=Mothersandnewborns&Round=all&Phase=1 here]


<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->