==How To Get Started==
*Finding your budget
*Small budgets are possible and make for creativity and resourcefulness

*Research/Plan
:*There are several different options for all parts and ways to complete a conversion. You have to figure out what parts suit your needs and budget.

==Create parts list==

:*Battery/Batteries
:*Wires
:*DC controller
:*DC motor
:*Custom adapter plate to connect to transmission
:*Motor to transmission coupler 
:*Motor mounts
:*Potentiometer (attached to accelerator/gas peddle)
:*Vacuum bottle

==Finding & Buying a Car==

*Any car can be converted, but small and light weight is more efficient as an electric car. Everything combustion related with be removed except for the transmission, so make sure the transmission is also is in good condition.  
*Contact or visit local car impound lots, craigslist, etc., for cars with dud engines. Remember a poor quality gasoline car will be a poor quality electric car, you don’t want one that is falling apart. 
*More manual aspects will take less energy away from powering the car itself. From the transmission to power lock, go for manual. 

== Finding & Purchasing Parts ==
*Be resourceful, creative, and local! Reach out to local companies for possible tax refunds, donations, or sponsors in return for a marketing the business in return. Free craigslist, construction sites, and salvage yards for free materials and parts
*Don’t forget to remember why you are doing this. Purchase and use recycled and reused materials within the local area. 

==Finding Resources==
*Reach out to specialists for tips, further resources, and possibly some of their time to contribute to the conversion. 

==Garage / Tools==

*Again, contact local businesses that may have available garage space, tools, and machinery. Mechanic shops are great for their knowledgeable employees. 
*Time to start the conversion

==Mechanics of the Conversion==
*Electric Car Motor 
:*We decided to use a forklift motor to drive the car. The forklift should have enough power to pull the car in third gear. I've read online of other builders using similar forklift motors to drive their electric car conversations. The first thing you have to do is pull the motor.
:*The motor and all the components that are related to combustion can be removed. 

*This means:
:*Motor
:*Gas tank
:*Radiator
:*Exhaust
:*Intake, etc..

*After removing the components, the electric motor has to be mounted to the existing transmission. The bolt holes of the transmission and the motor do not line up and an adaptor plate needs to be made to connect them together. After lining up the two parts, you need to connect the motor driveshaft to the transmission driveshaft. The best way is to create a coupler out of any components you took out of the original car motor. [http://www.diyelectriccar.com/forums/showthread.php/building-adapter-measurement-blueprinti-55509.html Learn how to DIY] 

*After motor and transmission is lined up, the DC controller needs to be installed. After the controller is installed, the batteries need to be put in the trunk and wired up.

== External links ==
* [http://www.sierranevada.edu Sierra Nevada College]

[[Category:Electric Car]]
[[Category:DIY]]
[[Category:Transport]]
[[Category:ENGR]]
[[Category:JMC]]
[[Category:PSC]]
[[Category:Alternative Energy Systems]]
[[Category:Alternative Transportation]]