There are several efforts to create a '''crisis wiki''' or '''emergency response wiki'''. The key term may vary [[emergency management]], [[natural disasters]], or [[emergency response]], but each effort covers a similar area. 

There is no single leading wiki, and in fact none of the wikis is very complete or active. The "competition" between the wikis might arguably be working against a critical mass of activity. 

The active wikis in this field are:
* [http://crisiscommons.org/wiki/ Crisis Commons Wiki] by [http://crisiscommons.org/ Crisis Commons]. Especially active in January 2010 after the [[Haiti]] earthquake. In late 2011 it is being heavily spammed (but the spam is being rolled back) - otherwise not very active.
* [http://www.crisiswiki.org/ CrisisWiki]. Little activity in late 2011.<ref>[http://www.crisiswiki.org/User:Jwalling Jwalling] seems to be the tech lead, and the active anti-spammer.</ref>
* [http://www.hurricanewiki.org/wiki/ HurricaneWiki] - originally the Tsunami wiki, then repurposed. 
* [http://www.emergency20wiki.org/wiki/ Emergency 2.0 Wiki] - 2011 Australian joint initiative by community and government sectors.<ref>[emergency20wiki.org/about-us/history History] - Emergency 2.0 Wiki.</ref> As of 9 October 2011, small (87 pages) with few page views (less than 20,000). Uses a non-commercial license, so cannot share content with Appropedia or other sites using [[CC-by-sa]].
* [[Appropedia]], which hosts emergency response projects such as [[Hexayurt]], and information on relevant subjects such as [[Earthquake safety]]<ref>A project we have had planned for a while is to collate information on [[earthquake safety]], including building design, mitigation, and what to during and after an earthquake. We have open licensed resources we can use to start the project, but need volunteers, esp people who have access to Adobe Acrobat Professional (to help convert PDFs). --[[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] 11:06, 18 January 2010 (UTC)</ref> [[Water supply and purification for emergencies]] and is intended to host designs for structures to withstand tsunamis and floods. It is not being widely used for emergency response coordination at this point. (These areas in Appropedia are planned for major expansion, to be a valuable resource for future emergencies and for preparation or contingency planning. If you want to help, leave a note on the {{talk page}}, check out [[Appropedia:Porting pages]], or just start contributing.)
* [https://wiki.ushahidi.com/ Ushahidi] - wiki for Ushahidi, a widely used software tool for crowdsourcing information in disasters.

Related collaborative sites:

*[http://www.k4health.org/toolkits/haiti_relief K4Health's Haiti Relief Toolkit]. Contributions are invited. You can suggest or comment on resources in the Toolkit's [http://www.k4health.org/forum/4704 discussion board]. The focus is on lists of external resources, and unlike a wiki it has no editable categorization, and no cross-linking or direct editing.The toolkit covers all vital sectors related to disaster relief, including health, water and sanitation, food security, and shelter, as well as key field activities supporting the operations, such as logistics. Resources focus on meeting both immediate emergency needs and long-term recovery efforts. 

== Maps ==

Maps play an important role in emergency response. Collaborative map tools enable more effective responses, especially if they contain information about the impact of the disaster. These tools include: 
* [http://www.openstreetmap.org/ OpenStreetMap]. Immediately after the Haiti earthquake in 2010, the coverage of Haiti improved radically, as a result of work done at a hastily called [[CrisisCamp]].
* [http://gregstoll.dyndns.org/scipionus/ Scipionus] - Hurricane Information Maps

== Longer term response ==

The pages [[humanitarian wiki]] and [[international development wiki]] give an overview of wiki projects and resources that relate more to the reconstruction and development work following the immediate response.

==Notes==
<small><references/></small>

== See also ==

* [[CrisisCamp]]
* [[:Category:Emergency management]] on Appropedia. This area is planned for a major expansion, to be a valuable resource for future emergencies and for preparation or contingency planning. If you want to help, leave a note on the {{talk page}}, check out [[Appropedia:Porting pages]], or just start contributing.

[[Category:Emergency management]]
[[Category:Wikis for human development]]
[[Category:Wikis]]