{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Waterborne diseases
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia
|Image=Crystal vc.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Cholera continues to be a major cause of illness and death in developing countries, especially in post-natural disaster or post-conflict settings. In these settings, laboratory diagnosis of cholera may not be possible due to lack of electricity and trained personnel. Timely diagnosis is essential for appropriate treatment.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Crystal VC dipstick test is an immunochromatographic rapid diagnostic test for cholera, which detects cholera strain-specific antigens in human fecal samples. It is highly sensitive and specific for detecting both O1 and O139 strains. Requiring no electricity or specialized training, these tests were designed for use in limited resource settings. Results are ready within 15 minutes.

==Relevance to developing country settings==
These tests were developed by the French non-profit Institut Pasteur for use in developing country settings, particularly within refugee camps or other crowded, sanitation-limited places. They have been tested in Guinea-Bissau, Madagascar, Bangladesh, India, and are commercially available through an Indian manufacturer.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: The Institut Pasteur in France
*Manufacturer: Span Diagnostics Ltd.
*Manufacturer location: Udhna, Surat, India
 
==Funding Source==
This device has philanthropic funding from the Institut Pasteur.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Bhuiyan NA, Qadri F, Faruque ASG, Malek MA, Salam MA, Nato F, Fournier JM et al. (2003). Use of dipsticks for rapid diagnosis of cholera caused by Vibrio cholerae O1 and O139 from rectal swabs. J Clin Microbiol, 41(8), 3939-3941. Link available [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC179818/ here].

Harris JR, Cavallaro EC, De Nobrega AA, Dos S Barrado JCB, Bopp C, Parsons MB, Djalo D et al. (2009.) Field evaluation of Crystal VC dipstick test for cholera during a cholera outbreak in Guinea-Bissau. Trop Med & Int Health, 14(9), 1117-1121. Link available [http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1365-3156.2009.02335.x/full here].

Kalluri P, Naheed A, Rahman S, Ansaruzzaman M, Faruque AS, Bird M, et al. (2006). Evaluation of three rapid diagnostic tests for cholera: does the skill level of the technician matter?. Trop Med Int Health, 11(1), 49-55. Link available [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16398755 here].

Mukherjee P, Ghosh S, Ramamurthy T, Bhattacharya MK, Nandy RK, Takeda Y et al. (2010.) Evaluation of a rapid immunochromatographic dipstick kit for diagnosis of cholera emphasizes its outbreak utility. Jpn J Infect Dis, 63, 234-238. Link available [http://www.nih.go.jp/JJID/63/234.pdf here].

Nato F, Boutonnier A, Rajerison M, Grosjean P, Dartevelle S, Guenole A et al. (2003.) One-step immunochromatographic dipstick tests for rapid detectrion of Vibrio cholerae O1 and O139 in stool samples. Clin Diagn Lab Immunol, 10(3), 476-478. Link available [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC154973/ here].

Wang X-Y, Ansaruzzaman M, Vaz R, Mondlane C, Lucas MES, von Seidlein L, Deen JL et al. (2006.) Field evaluation of a rapid immunochromatographic dipstick test for the diagnosis of cholera in a high-risk population. BMC Infect Dis, 6, e17. Link available [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1402302/ here].

===Internally generated reports===
Span Diagnostics. (2009.) Crystal VC. Link available [http://www.span.co.in/ProductList/ProductDetails/REAGENTS/279-Crystal_VC_(Dipstick).HTM here].