{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=HIV/AIDS
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa
|Image=Daktari.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
There is a need to develop CD4 counters that do not rely on laboratory workers and expensive/complicated equipment. A counter that can be used by rural clinicians in the field without extensive training would greatly assist in managing HIV in rural areas.

==Detailed description of the solution==
Microfluidic cell chromatography isolates cells and other particles in a miniature sensing chamber, without the complex manual steps of blood tests.  The system takes advantage of electrochemical sensing, using lysate impedance spectroscopy. The system uses a simple sensor that counts the captured CD4 cells by measuring their internal contents electrically. A hand-held instrument interprets the electrical signal, and reports the CD4 count within minutes.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Daktari Diagnostics
*Manufacturer location: Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
A clinical trial took place in Seattle the summer of 2010 and clinical trials have also been conducted in Uganda.

==Funding Source==
Funded privately and through the Gates Foundation.

==References==
===Externally generated reports===
McBride R. (2009.) Daktari Diagnostics, backed by Gates Foundation, raises funds for HIV test study. Link available [http://www.xconomy.com/boston/2010/06/17/daktari-diagnostics-backed-by-gates-foundation-raises-funds-for-hiv-test-study/ here]