This is one of the wikis that merged into Appropedia. This page is preserved for historical reasons and the main part of the page should not be edited. 

''Moved from [[Wikia:Scratchpad:About the Development and Sustainability Wikia]]''

<center><div style="background-color: LightBlue; border: 1px solid; margin: 15px; padding: 15px; width:60%"> 

<big>'''Merged with [[Welcome to Appropedia|Appropedia]]'''</big>

This scratchpad has been merged into [[Welcome to Appropedia|Appropedia]], following discussions about scope and other issues. Appropedia is happy to cover broader issues of [[sustainability and development]].

If you have any questions or comments, please direct them to [[User talk:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy's talk page]].

</div></center>


This Development and Sustainability Wikia is meant to serve the needs of professionals, academics, volunteers and the very keen, who are working in the fields of development & sustainability.
This includes all types of:
*[[International development]] work, whether [[appropriate technology]], community work, microfinance, or other. 
*[[Sustainable design]]. 

==How it works==
This is an experimental "mini wiki", created through Scratchpad Wiki Labs. If it proves popular, it can be transfered to it's own domain on Wikia (e.g. developmentandsustainability.wikia.com - unless we've come up with a better name by then). 

Make sure you leave '''<nowiki>[[Category:Development and Sustainability]]</nowiki>''' on the page when you save it to make it part of the Development and Sustainability wiki. 

== Comparison with Wikipedia ==

This site is a complement to [http://en.wikipedia.org Wikipedia], not a competitor. Most importantly, '''this Wikia does not aim to develop encyclopedia style articles'''. 

{| class="wikitable"
!<big>Wikipedia</big> || <big>Development & Sustainability Wikia</big>
|-
|[[Wikipedia:NPOV|NPOV]] (Neutral Point of View) || Points of view welcome (as long as they're respectful)
|-
|No original ideas or speculation || Please share your ideas! (But be clear that they're ideas, and be prepared for others to disagree with you.)
|-
|No original research || Original research welcomed!
|-
|Compilation of information and links || Not here please! Put all that at Wikipedia (but you can link to Wikipedia articles from this Wikia).
|-
|Be courteous || Be courteous 
|-
|Assume good faith || Assume good faith
|}

Any "encyclopedic" material placed here may be removed - although if it's useful the relevant parts should be moved to Wikipedia. If you're not sure where on Wikipedia to put it, then post it on the [[Wikipedia:Wikipedia talk:WikiProject International development|WikiProject International development talk page]].

== Resources on Wikia.com ==
*[http://www.wikia.com/wiki/Category:Promotional_campaign_supporter Category:Promotional campaign supporter]

== Related Wikia ==

*[[wikia:c:permaculture|Permaculture wikia]]
*[[wikia:c:gknowledge|G.Knowledge wikia]]
*[[wikia:c:renewableenergy|Renewable Energy Design wikia]]
*[http://www.wikigreen.org wikigreen.org is not a wikia and has no Google ads.] A Wiki for [[Sustainable living]], [[Intentional communities]] and life Off the grid. You will find here the personal experience of Alternative energy, Back to the land and Do-It-Yourself people, as well as regular folks wanting to live more Green.

See also categories...

== Language ==

While this Wikia has been started by English speakers, we welcome all people. We will try to write clearly, and we welcome any attempt to make a space for other languages. This could be achieved by using a different namespace for languages other than English - e.g. Indonesian articles would start with "id:". We could link between pages on the same topic, using the same kind of inter-language link that Wikipedia uses.

==History of this wikia ==
This wikia was created as a [[mini wiki]] at Scratchpad Wiki Labs on 27 April 2006, by [[User:Singkong2005|Singkong2005]] (now known as [[User:Chriswaterguy| Chriswaterguy]]).

[[Category:Appropedia history]]