We are the Dharmahouse Community project - a small [[:Category:Culture_and_community|community]], drawing inspiration from the teachings of the Buddha and the ideal of living and connecting with others close to nature. It is our aim to explore a way of life centered around ecological and sustainable ethics, placing an emphasis on integrating mindful awareness into daily activities. 

The Dharmahouse is based in the foothills of the Cevennes mountain range overlooking the Ceze River in the south of [[France]], surrounded by national park and majestic views. The property is located on a hilltop in eight acres of farm land encompassing a variety of plants, herbs and trees, such as [[olive]], [[almond]], [[plum]], [[mimosa]], [[fig]] and [[silk]] trees. The community is active in cultivating our large poly tunnel and structuring the land with [[Permaculture|permacultural]] ideas and designs.

The Dharmahouse takes its name from the Sanskrit term 'Dharma' from a teaching laid down by the historical Buddha over 2,500 years ago. It is a revolutionary teaching that points to 'the truth of reality'. We are a peer-led lay community encouraging spiritual friendship, what the Buddha referred to as ‘the whole of the spiritual life’. At various times throughout the year we hold meditation and yoga retreats, led by monastic and lay teachers. We also run courses exploring a wide range of topics, including ecological building, permaculture and therapeutic process.

It is our aim to expand into a [[cohousing]] community big enough to incorporate at least 10 families/individuals. 

==See also==
*[[Types of communities]]

== External links ==
*[http://www.thedharmahouse.com Homepage]
*[http://www.ic.org/pnp/cdir/2000/09cohousing.php Cohousing], by Don Lindermann (2000)

[[Category:Cohousing]]
[[Category:Buddhism]]
[[Category:Permaculture sites]]
[[Category:Permaculture projects]]