== Abstract ==
This article about reducing diesel emissions is a big step towards a healthier living environment for all.  By refining oil, and making it better for the air, we are polluting less and breathing healthier air.  This idea has been started in off-road vehicles that use diesel fuel and will continue to be used in highway trucks and school buses.  Once all of this is done and has taken place we will see less deaths, health related problems, and be able to breath in clean air.  --[[User:Krd207|Krd207]] 13:37, 22 October 2007 (PDT)

== Diesel Emissions ==
Diesel emissions are a mixture of gases, vapors, liquid aerosols and substances made up of particles.  They contain carbon (soot), nitrogen, water, carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, and sulfur dioxide.  Diesel Emissions have the potential to cause a range of health problems.  

== EPA Issues New Diesel Rules ==
In April of 2004, The Bush administration finalized new rules to minimize emissions from off-road diesel powered vehicles.  Examples are bulldozers, tractors, and irrigation equipment.  These vehicle emissions have been linked to premature deaths, lung cancer, asthma and others.  The regulations from the EPA will reduce the emissions of nitrogen oxide, sulfur, and other pollutants from diesel engines by more than 90% by 2090.  


== What do the Oil Companies Do? ==
These new rules require oil refiners to reduce the sulfur in non-road diesel fuel by 99% from its current level of 3,400 parts per million to 500 parts per million.  By 2010, they will need to be reduced to 15 parts per million. 

== Supported by AAEA ==
The African American Environmentalist Association supports the Bush Administration's plan to reduce emissions from off-road diesel engines used in construction, agricultural and industrial equipment.  
By adding this rule, it will provide value to children, elderly, asthmatics, and others with respiratory problems.  


== In the Future ==
The EPA administrator announced that in 2008 new engines for highway trucks and school bus retrofits will be available and fully applicable by 2014.  This will reduce particulate matter and nitrogen oxide by 90% when all is done.  Also, the sulfur content of diesel fuel will be reduced 99%.  The EPA estimated that this nonroad program will prevent the following by 2030:
              -9,600 premature deaths
              -8,300 hospitalizations
              -16,000 heart attacks
              -5,700 asthma related ER visits
              -260,000 respiratory problems in children

[[Category:African American Environmentalist Association]]