'''Domestic energy consumption''' is the amount of energy that is spent on the different appliances used within family houses. In an average household in a temperate climate,{{Clarify|date=October 2008}} The average energy in a (Belgian) household a year consists of 20000kW-h. These figures are surely dependent on size of housing electricity, location and local weather. Other figures are similarly dependent on unspecified factors. --> the yearly use of household energy can be composed as follows:

{{bar box
|title=Average domestic energy consumption per household in temperate climates
|titlebar=#DDD
|width=470px
|barwidth=150px
|bars=
{{bar percent|[[HVAC#Heating|Heating]]|blue|60.0|12000 [[Kilowatt hour|kW·h]]/[[year]] (1400 [[Watt]]) }}
{{bar percent|[[Hot water]]|blue|15.0|3000 kW·h/year (340 Watt) }}
{{bar percent|Cooling/refrigeration|blue|6.0|1200 kW·h/year (140 Watt) }}
{{bar percent|[[Lighting]]|blue|6.0|1200 kW·h/year (140 Watt) }}
{{bar percent|Washing and drying|blue|5.0|1000 kW·h/year (110 Watt) }}
{{bar percent|Cooking|blue|5.0|1000 kW·h/year (110 Watt) }}
{{bar percent|[[Miscellaneous electric load]]|blue|3.0|600 kW·h/year (70 Watt) }}
}}

Note that for households in the developing world these overview data are incorrect (area heating almost reduced to zero, and less and different consumption of energy).{{Clarify|date=October 2008}}<!-- need context and source before claiming that figures are incorrect, as they well be incorrect for the developed world -->

== Daily domestic energy consumption ==
Below, fairly accurate{{Clarify|date=October 2008}}<!-- cite needed to justify there is any accuracy here at all --> estimates are noted for a general{{Clarify|date=October 2008}}<!-- define "general" --> private home in the temperate climate. In addition, rough non equations are noted about the energy requirements for homes in the (sub)tropical climates. The latter however may not be as accurate as the starting numbers have been derived from a table for the temperate climates.{{Clarify|date=October 2008}}<!-- which table? --> They however give a rough idea. Finally, it should be noted that the latter equations do not differentiate between subtropical climates and tropical climates; again some differences may be present here as well, translating in an even greater margin of error. However, the numbers are only designed to give a general indication and in this they will likely succeed.{{Clarify|date=October 2008}}<!-- ? -->

=== In temperate climates ===
<!-- calculation as follows: 60% equals 12000 kW·h, thus 100% equals 20000 kW·h -->
As can be seen from the table above, a private home in a temperate climate generally needs around 20,000 [[kilowatt-hour]]s per year (20000&nbsp;kW·h/[[year]]) to fulfill its energy needs.{{Clarify|date=October 2008}}<!-- My yearly gas bill for a largish European house in temperate location shows around 1200 cubic metres, i.e. 13200 kWh, used for heating and hot water. Electricity powers everything else and shows about 1665 kWh per year. So my annual total energy use is 15000 kWh. The above table for heat and water is about right, but seems excessive for the rest. 5000 kWh on light, cooling, washing and cooking when I use only 1600? -->
people use 10 to the 11 watts of power in the US

=== In (sub)tropical climates ===
<!-- calculation as follows: 60% equals 12000 kW·h, thus 100% equals 20000 kW·h; minus the 60% of space heating equals 8000 kW·h-->
As can be seen from the table, a private home in a subtropical climate generally needs around 8000&nbsp;kW·h/a (1&nbsp;kW) to fulfill in its energy needs.

==Domestic electricity consumption==
{{Mergefrom|Pico hydro#Power consumption|date=January 2009}}
Other than the domestic ''energy'' consumption, the domestic ''electricity'' consumption is the amount of electricity is used within the home. Space heating apparatus that work on other energy sources (eg gas, wood from gas stoves, gas heaters, wood burners, ...) are thus not included. The electricity consumption needs to be known to be able to calculate the electricity one needs to generate to create an [[off-the-grid]] system.

== Amount and size of powerplants required ==
As stated, for practical (off-the-grid microgeneration) use, rather than the domestic ''energy'' requirements, the domestic ''electricity'' requirements need to be taken.

===Amount of solar panels required===
{{Main|Photovoltaics}}
{{Main|Troubleshooting a Photovoltaic System}}
<!-- 2 sections needed: both for tropical as temperate climates (amount of sunlight/efficiency is different) -->
According to documents by Practical Action, and according to Microgeneration.com, the power generated by solar panels is about 10 watts per square metre of solar collector (10 W/m²).

Depending on the location where the panels are employed (tropics or temperate climates), more or less area is required.

===Amount of wind turbines required===
To generate power, the average autonomous house needs only one small horizontal axis [[wind turbine|wind generator]] (HAWT), 5 metres or less in diameter. On a 30 metre high tower, this turbine can provide enough power to supplement solar power on cloudy days. Commercially available wind turbines use sealed, one-moving-part AC generators and passive, self-feathering blades for years of operation without service.

The largest advantage of [[wind power]] is that larger wind turbines have a lower per-watt cost than solar cells, provided there is wind. However, location is critical. Just as some locations lack sun for solar cells, some locations lack sufficient wind for an economical turbine installation. In the [[Great Plains]] of the [[United States]] a 10 metre turbine can supply enough energy to heat and cool a well-built all-electric house. Economic use in other areas requires research, and possibly a site-survey.<ref>Paul Gipe, "Wind Power for Home and Business"</ref>

==See also==
* [[Microgeneration]]

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

==External links==
* http://home.howstuffworks.com/emergency-power2.htm
* [https://extranetdocs.eandis.be/Livelink/livelink.exe?func=ll.login&username=wcm01&password=wcm01&NextURL=%2FLivelink%2Flivelink%2Eexe%3Ffunc%3Ddoc%2Efetch%26nodeId%3D5481239 Eandis Magazine: Hoe ziet je energiebudget eruit? (see page 4)]
<!-- Link broken, BERR dissolved *[http://www.berr.gov.uk/files/file11250.pdf Domestic Energy Consumption in the UK]  -->
*[http://www.statistics.gov.uk/STATBASE/ssdataset.asp?vlnk=7287 Domestic Energy Statistics in the UK]
*[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domestic_energy_consumption Wikipedia article on domestic energy consumption]

[[Category:Energy conservation]]
[[Category:Energy]]