=Overview=

The following is a step by step guide to building a retained heat cooker that was designed for the purpose of the [[Jefferson Community Center workshop 2013]]

==Building Instructions==
This is an easy process using less than 10 dollars worth of materials 

===Materials===

*1 Cardboard Produce Box 
*1 Roll of Aluminum Foil
*Duct tape
*Paper (newspaper is preferred)
*1 Mylar emergency blanket
*Scissors


==How to Build==
{{How to
| title=Building your own retained heat cooker
| size=180
| Image:Step 1-jtl.jpg | Figure 1: Cardboard box is lined with paper
|1| Line the main box with paper

| Image:Step 2jtl.jpg | Figure 2: be sure to allow the foil to drape over sides of box
|2| Line the cardboard box with aluminum foil  

| Image:Step3jtl.jpg| Figure 3: Mylar Blanket
|3| Line the Box with a Mylar emergency blanket, be sure to reduce the number of air pockets. 

| Image:Final productjtl.jpg | Figure 4: the final cooker
|4| Repeat steps 1 and 2 with the lid of the box

| Image:Final productjtl.jpg | Figure 5: You're Done!
|5| The cooker is now complete! For use just place some blankets and towels inside, and seal a cooking pot in the cooker.


}}

==Use==

The cooker is easy to use. Simply bring a meal to the proper temperature and leave it there for at least 2 minutes, then seal it in the box. Leave it in the box until cooking is completed. It should be noted that recipes using this method require less spicing and usually 50% more time to cook, so plan accordingly.

== Maintenance and tips==

#Clean your cooker between each use.
#Be sure to wash all blankets and towels used in the cooking process
#Do not leave your cooker in areas where it could get wet.
#Always ensure that your food is fully cooked before consuming
#Experiment with new recipes! Stews and soups work well with this method.


[[Category:Engr305 Appropriate Technology]]
[[Category:How tos]]