{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Physical disabilities 
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia
|Image=Eb1leg.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Prosthetic feet are usually the first part of the prosthetic leg to fail, particularly in developing country settings where people are often subject to poorly constructed roads and semi-wild trails.  At the same time, durable prosthetic feet need to be affordable for these patients.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The EB1 is a single piece of vulcanized rubber shaped to resemble the human foot. Aluminum and wood are used to reinforce the foot.  The model is designed to last for three years, to be manufactured locally using local materials, and to cost less than $5.00 USD.

==Relevance to developing country settings==
The EB1 is designed for use in Vietnam and is currently manufactured in that country.  Prosthetics Outreach International is expanding the manufacturing program to Sierra Leone, Haiti, and Bangladesh.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Prosthetics Outreach Foundation
*Manufacturer location: International Headquarters in Seattle, Washington, USA
 
==Funding Source==
This project receives philanthropic funding from Prosthetics Outreach Foundation.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Sam, M., Hansen, A. H., and Childress, D. S. (2004). Characterisation of prosthetic feet used in low-income countries. Prosthetics and Orthotics International, 28, 132-140.

Steen Jensen, J., Nilsen, R., Zeffer, J., Fisk, J., and Hartz, C. (2006). Clinical field testing of vulcanized feet for trans-tibial amputees in tropical low-income countries. Prosthetics and Orthotics International, 30(2), 195-212. Link available [http://poi.sagepub.com/content/30/2/195.short here].

Steen Jensen, J. and Treichl, H. B. (2007). Mechanical testing of prosthetic feet utilized in low-income countries according to ISO-10328 standard. Prosthetics and Orthotics International, 31(2), 177-206.

===Other internally generated reports===
Prosthetics Outreach Foundation. (2011). The EB1 Foot. Link available [http://pofsea.org/programs/vietnam/local-prosthetic-and-orthotic-component-development/the-eb1-foot/ here].

Prosthetics Outreach Foundation. (2007). Making the EB1 Foot. Youtube video available [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6iRgvgM4kNw here].

===Externally generated reports===
Steen Jensen, J. and Sexton, S. (2010).  Appropriate Prosthetic and Orthotic Technologies in Low Income Countries (2000-2010).  Link available [http://www.healinghandsforhaiti.org/LinkClick.aspx?fileticket=g%2FkPUGJbFT4%3D&tabid=73&language=en-US here].

Strait, E. (2006). Prosthetics in developing countries. PDF available [http://www.oandp.org/publications/resident/pdf/DevelopingCountries.pdf here].