{{MOST}}
{{Lit}}
[[category:MOST literature reviews]]

===Field-Effect Transistors Based on Single Semiconducting Oxide Nanobelts===
*350nm light - increased conductivity by photogeneration of - + pairs
*after light is switched "off" conductivity slowly decreases


[http://nanoscience.gatech.edu/paper/2003/03_JPC_1.pdf]

===Electric Field Effect in Atomically Thin Carbon Films===
* Used on graphene and near atomic thickness carbon films
* carrier mobility very high, why?


“Electric Field Effect in Atomically Thin Carbon Films”, n.d. http://www.sciencemag.org/content/306/5696/666.full.[http://www.sciencemag.org/content/306/5696/666.full.pdf]

===Improved performance of amorphous silicon solar cells via scattering from surface plasmon polaritons in nearby metallic nanoparticles===

* comments

D. Derkacs, S. H. Lim, P. Matheu, W. Mar, and E. T. Yu, “Improved performance of amorphous silicon solar cells via scattering from surface plasmon polaritons in nearby metallic nanoparticles,” Applied Physics Letters, vol. 89, no. 9, pp. 093103–093103–3, Aug. 2006.

===Electron−hole pair creation energy in SiO2===
* seems to point at the possibility
* does use SiO2
* focuses on plasmon excitation/creation - as it decomposes it creates - + pairs

Ausman, G. A.; McLean, F. B.; , "Electron-hole pair creation energy in SiO2," Applied Physics Letters , vol.26, no.4, pp.173-175, Feb 1975
doi: 10.1063/1.88104 [http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=4845034&isnumber=4845018]

===Vectorial Electron Injection into Transparent Semiconductor Membranes and Electric Field Effects===
*still reading, may offer some help
[http://pubs.acs.org/doi/pdf/10.1021/j100387a017]

===Improved performance of amorphous silicon solar cells===

Improved performance of amorphous silicon solar cells via scattering from surface plasmon polaritons in nearby metallic nanoparticles
D. Derkacs, S. H. Lim, P. Matheu, W. Mar, and E. T. Yu, Appl. Phys. Lett. 89, 093103 (2006), DOI:10.1063/1.2336629[http://apl.aip.org/resource/1/applab/v89/i9/p093103_s1?ver=pdfcov]

===Field Aided Lateral Crystallization of Amorphous Silicon Thin Film===
* applied field aids in crystallization direction
* elevated temperature (not operating temp)
[http://jjap.jsap.jp/link?JJAP/38/L108/pdf]

===Effect of an Electric Field on  Silicon Oxidation===
[http://scitation.aip.org/getpdf/servlet/GetPDFServlet?filetype=pdf&id=JCPSA6000037000004000874000001&idtype=cvips&doi=10.1063/1.1733177&prog=normal]