A four-step process that has awakened The Pennsylvania State University to its [[ecological impact]] and is moving it toward [[sustainable]] resource-use policies is presented as a general model for ecological reform in universities. 

# The first step was to frame the problem by conducting a high-profile ecological assessment of the institution using sustainability indicators.<ref>"The Penn State Indicators Report."  2000.    This report gauges sustainability, or lack thereof, at Penn State using 33 sustainability indicators. [http://www.bio.psu.edu/Greendestiny/publications/gdc-indicators_2000.pdf]</ref> 
# This created both the justification and the momentum necessary to persuade the university to adopt an [[ecological mission]]. <ref>"Penn State's Emerging Ecological Mission."  2001.  Green Destiny Council.    This document lays out a comprehensive ecological mission for Penn State. [http://www.bio.psu.edu/Greendestiny/publications/gdc-eem.pdf] </ref> 
#Next, a detailed ecological and economic analysis of a university facility was made to establish concrete socio-techno solutions <ref>"The Mueller Report: Moving Beyond Sustainability Indicators to Sustainability Action at Penn State." 2001. This study reveals how the "ecological footprint" of Mueller Biology Building could be reduced by half while saving $45,000/year. [http://www.bio.psu.edu/Greendestiny/publications/gdc-mueller_report.pdf]</ref> 
#That could then be extrapolated to form specific sustainable policies for the entire university - to implement [[Green university policy]]. 

For a detailed discussion of these steps see: "[http://www.bio.psu.edu/Greendestiny/publications/gdc-pfhe-31-3.pdf Getting It Done: Effective Sustainable Policy Implementation at the University Level]." Joshua M. Pearce and Christopher F. Uhl.(2003). ''Planning for Higher Education'' '''31'''(3): 53-61. [http://mtu.academia.edu/JoshuaPearce/Papers/1544625/Getting_It_Done_Effective_Sustainable_Policy_Implementation_at_the_University_Level open access]

== Notes ==
<small><references/></small>

[[Category:Education]]
[[Category:Policies]]
[[Category:Green living]]