== Resources ==

=== Ideas and Mental Models ===

The hash tag for this event (see http://twitter.com) is #eind1009

http://hexayurt.blip.tv/search?q=eindhoven+shelter videos from this event, including the briefings from yesterday. 

http://hexayurt.blip.tv/file/2715114/ is the link to the video discussing how to fasten tarps to ropes and tarps to wood and so on. Refer to this if you need a reminder!

http://butteredsidedown.co.uk - "Dealing In Security" - the master document for Six Ways To Die

http://files.howtolivewiki.com/six_ways_to_die - "Six Ways To Die" has some additional diagrams which go into more detail. These need to be printed large to work they are too small.

http://files.howtolivewiki.com/reykjavik_briefing/ The Reykjavik Briefing on disaster relief

=== Shapes and Shelters ===

http://www.equipped.org/tarp-shelters.htm - PDF document describing many different tarp shelter designs, mostly very small for survival in camping situations

http://www.softcom.net/users/rocksci/bman/shelter.htm - practical guides to making shelters of various kinds.

http://images.google.com/images?q=hypar%20shelter&oe=utf-8&rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official&client=firefox-a&um=1&ie=UTF-8&sa=N&hl=en&tab=wi Hypar shelters

http://conicshelter.com/ conic shelters - straight lines produce curves

http://images.google.com/images?q=hypar%20shelter&oe=utf-8&rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official&client=firefox-a&um=1&ie=UTF-8&sa=N&hl=en&tab=wi - Hypar shelters, like the conics but with tension materials

http://www.rwgrayprojects.com/synergetics/s04/figs/f1301.html - vector equilibrium - a good shape because of the triangles

http://www.chromatest.net/Lovemonkey/ - the infamous monkey hut (widely used at Burning Man)

http://www.appropedia.org/Hexayurt_frame - a shelter frame that might be useful with tarps

Also research how domes are built with the following method. A peg is put in the ground, and a string is tied to it. The other end of the string is tied to the wrist of the builder, who is usually using bricks. The result is a dome with the same radius as the string. Can a similar approach be used to make a dome from sticks?

=== Six Ways To Die, Sweden ===
A sister workshop to this one.

http://www.emergencyhousing.se/news/six-ways-to-die/ - The event

http://www.emergencyhousing.se/news/notes-six-ways-to-die-sept-2009/ - Student presentation videos

http://www.appropedia.org/6WTD_2009 - Links and references from the workshop, including lots of detail on humanitarian design and risks

== Discussion Forum ==

http://globalswadeshi.ning.com/group/eindhovenshelter2009 - this is a subgroup on the Global Swadeshi ("self-reliance") forum. You'll need to make an account to use it. Please put all discussions about this even in the Eindhoven Shelter group, not on the main http://globalswadeshi.net site. 

hexayurt@gmail.com is my email address - http://hexayurt.com/plan is my homepage

== Editing Instructions ==
To add a link or other resources **to this page**: hit edit on the *section* you want to edit, and add your links. There are additional editing instruction on the edit page.

To make a new page for your project, follow these instructions carefully.

# Pick a short name for your shelter, like "Pyramid Shelter"
# Hit the Edit button on the Student Shelter Designs section below - to the right of the heading
# Take a new line, and put a * there
# Type two square brackets, like this [[
# Then Eind1009
# Then room number_group number (note the underline)
# Then your shelter name
# Then two more square brackets ]]

There's an example, you'll see it when you hit the Edit button, just copy that

Once you've added types in your line, hit Save. You'll come back to this page. Then click your shelter name - it will appear in Red - and type in your information. Remember to save! This is all a bit tricky compared to just writing a report, but it's the same technology that http://wikipedia.org uses, so at least you're learning something useful!

***If you don't make an Appropedia account, it will keep asking you simple math questions to make sure you are not a spammer.***

For videos, I suggest http://blip.tv rather than youtube. Just paste a link into the Appropedia page, you can't embed a video clip. Make sure to tag your video or your photos with #eind1009

== Student Shelter Designs ==

* [[Eind1009 0_0 Vinay's Shelter Design‎]]

* [[Eind1009 0_0 Lassé Shelter Design by group 3V‎]]

* [[Eind1009 5_4 Overstroom-home ("flood-home")]]

== Pictures, Videos and other Media ==

* http://www.flickr.com/photos/23814148@N00/sets/72157622585539332/ - A few of Vinay's pictures
* http://files.howtolivewiki.com/eindhoven_1009_shelter_workshop_raw_files/ - the rest of Vinay's pictures and video, raw files.

[[Category:Coursework]]
[[Category:Shelter]]