{{AAG available project}}

==Mission==
* To improve the standard of living of [[poor]] people in [[Nicaragua]] through sustainable self-help [[water]], [[sanitation]] and reforestation projects.

==Goals==
* To improve the health of poor people, especially the children, and to reduce infant mortality.
* To lessen the physical burden on women and children of carrying water.
* To support self-help, community-initiated efforts in rural villages.
* To transfer to the villagers skills which they can use to improve their lives.
* To preserve the watersheds on which the water projects depend.

==Activities==
Each year, El Porvenir offers one-week and two-week work trips to Nicaragua. Groups of 10-15 people work in a village assisting Nicaraguan families in the construction of water, sanitation, or reforestation projects. The group is accompanied at all times by a bilingual El Porvenir staff member. Neither Spanish nor construction skills are required, though both are useful and welcome.

==Costs==
Work trips cost $800 to $1075 and the fee covers the following expenses:

* Cost of project materials, tools and equipment
* Pre-project organization, materials purchase and delivery
* Reservations, airport transfers, special arrangements
* Lodging, meals and transportation within Nicaragua
* Services of group coordinators/interpreters
* A recreational weekend at the beach or in the mountains
* Health/accident/baggage insurance

==Dates==
*  July 24 to 31, 2008 — Open
* August 9 to 18, 2008 — Open
* October 4 to 13, 2008 — Elderhostel Service Program
* January 31 to February 7, 2009 — Open
* February 20 to 28, 2009 — Open

==Get Involved==
* http://www.elporvenir.org/


[[Category:Nicaragua]]