Advice and resources for jobs and volunteering opportunities in [[international development]].

==Suggestions for finding work==
*Some aid agencies (such as AusAID) don't employ many people directly, but have subcontractors who employ people. Go to the aid agency's website and look for public tenders, and see who has recently won tenders in an area that interests you. Do your research, have your resumé ready, and contact the company directly. 
*Don't rule out [[:Category:International_volunteer_opportunities | volunteering positions]], even if you need the money. Some "volunteer" positions actually include a comfortable payment (hundreds or even thousands of dollars per month, which goes a long way in a developing country), even if it's nowhere near as much as consultants' wages. 
*Consider your financial needs. There are sites & organizations which ask you to pay to volunteer - this may be legitimate (especially for an NGO on a tight budget) but check it out carefully. It's normal that you pay your own airfare, and perhaps pay a reasonable amount for food and accomodation. However there are also businesses which charge well above the usual local rates in third world countries. 
*Join mailing lists and subscribe to newsletters in your field of interest, as these often have postings for jobs (though these usually assume several years of experience).
*Post your CV/résumé on job sites - see [[#External links|External links]] at bottom of this page.
*Is it possible to set up an alert on a specific web page, to detect changes? E.g. if the word "water" or "architect" appears on a certain jobs vacancies page (e.g. [http://acfid.asn.au/work/list_of_vacancies.htm this one], it should send an email. (Google alerts won't do this - is there something that does?)

==See also==
* [[Preparing your resume (CV)]]
* [[Useful sites]]

==External links==
*[http://www.sussex.ac.uk/cdec/careers_path.php?carpath=15&carsection=4 Sussex University's Career Development & Employment Centre - International Development] - useful links. 

===Advice===
*[http://www.aidworkers.net/ Aid Workers Network] Blogs by aid/development workers. Includes pages of posts listed by topics such as ''Your Career in Aid Work'' and ''Advice for first-time aid workers''.
*[http://www.clevergirl.ca/journal/?page_id=192 Don’t forget your shovel - Be an Aid Worker!]
*[http://www.skmconsulting.com/skm/Popup.aspx?url=/careers/grad_Interview+tips.htm Interview tips] from SKM Consulting (major Australian development firm).
*[http://www.humanitarianjobs.info humanitarianjobs.info] A blog about getting your first job in relief and development.

==Registries==
These are sites and organizations which allow you to register yourself for volunteer and/or paid work.
*[[RedR]]{{w|RedR}}, and [http://www.redr.org/ home page]. Maintains a register of professionals in engineering and logistics with several years experience, to contact for volunteer work in case of emergencies. Only those who meet the criteria can register. 
*[http://www.oxfam.org.au/getactive/work/relief/index.html Humanitarian Relief Register], with [[Oxfam]]{{w|Oxfam}} Australia. A register of professionals (similar to RedR, but broader than just engineers).
* [http://www.humanitarianengineers.org Engineers Without Borders: Humanitarian Engineers Registry]

===Job sites===
*[http://www.developmentex.com The Development Executive Group]
*[http://www.reliefweb.int/vacancies/ ReliefWeb - Vacancies]
*[http://project.com.au/ World Wide Project Management Services] Australian-based. Register and post your CV/resume.
*[http://www.internationaljobs.org/index.html International Job Center] - a job site focusing on development jobs (recently linked by [http://www.ewb-international.org/ EWB-I])
*[http://devnetjobs.tripod.com/internationaljobs.html DevNetJobs] - also [http://devnetjobs.tripod.com/dnjvalue-noticeboard.html post your resume]
*[http://www.oneworld.net/section/involved  Job opportunity postings at One World ]
*[http://www.acfid.asn.au/links/links.htm#jobs Links] on ACFID's site. Australian and international.
*[http://www.alertnet.org/thepeople/jobs/index.htm AlertNet jobs page].
*[http://www.eldis.org/news/jobs.htm Eldis jobs page]

====Australian====
*[http://www.austraining.com.au/ Austraining International] - company owned by Australian government. Register and post your CV/resume. 
*[http://www.developmentgateway.com.au/jahia/Jahia/pid/340 Search job vacancies] at the Australian Development Gateway - jobs in the Asia Pacific region. Not many jobs listed, so it's best to search with broad criteria, e.g. selecting ''Any'' for location and/or category. However, must select alternatives for ''Type'' otherwise only contract jobs are shown. 
*[http://acfid.asn.au/work/list_of_vacancies.htm List of Vacancies] by ACFID (Australian Council for International Development) member agencies.
====Specific agencies====
*[http://www.acted.org/english/jobs Agency for Technical Cooperation and Development] - French organization, working mainly work in Africa.


These are NGOs who are looking for employees and will at least pay for your trip
* [[AIDG]] has an internship program through which they place volunteers at their various projects.
* [[The Borneo Project]] Is currently looking for someone with a Civil Engineering background. (Added 4-21-8)
* [[Ecosystems Nepal]] Is looking for 2 Mechanical Engineers or aspiring students to help them in the construction of their wire bridges (Added 4-21-8)
* [[Worldbike]] Is looking for a project manager to work at their bike fabrication facilities in Kenya. (Added 4-22-8)
* [[Cummins Engine in Minneapolis]] is looking for an ME/PD/EE to lead technical development of rural electrification project. (Added 5-2-8)
==See also==
* [[:Category:International volunteer opportunities]]
** Much content that previously appeared on this page has been moved to the above page


[[Category:Aid and development workers]]
[[Category:Employment]]
[[Category:Internet resources]]