{{under construction}}

Starting soon (2013?), resources used in universities in [[Timor Leste]] (East Timor) must be in Portuguese, Tetun{{w|Tetum language}} (also called Tetum) or English. The language of the classroom must be Portuguese or Tetun.


Indonesian translations can be available, and this will be important as:
* There are few resources in Tetun and many students find English and Portuguese difficult.
* Many young people do understand Indonesian, due to the recent history of Timor Leste and the availability of Indonesian television programs.

== Needs ==

''This section needs to be checked and corrected by people from Engineering at DIT, to be sure that it's an accurate description of their needs.''

* '''Process for curriculum development''': Engineering at DIT has has a curriculum, but need a process for curriculum development
* '''Learning resources:''' Students struggle with many subjects, and language challenges make this much harder. High quality learning, resources in a language the students understand, will help.
* '''Contextualization:''' Adaptation of the curriculum to the needs and [[context]] of Timor Leste. 

Teaching resources are needed to support the curriculum in many subjects including: fluid mechanics, hydrology, water resource engineering, water supply, drainage, irrigation and infrastructure, soil mechanics/geotechnical engineering, road engineering, environmental engineering, sanitation. 

While many resources are available (e.g. English textbooks in the library) resources that are structured for a suitable course are more valuable.

== Questions and possible solutions == 

* Could we find suitable [[OpenCourseWare]] (OCW) resources in English and have them translated into Indonesian for students who need this?
* Is it possible to translate resources into Tetun? 
** Could this be a collaborative exercise for students, to translate a small part of a key resource, from the English/Portguese/Indonesian versions? The process would help the students, and it would create Tetun resources for future classes. This raises some issues:
*** Many technical terms do not exist in Tetun. Foreign terms may be used in italics in these cases.
*** Internet is very slow in Dili, so using a web platform for collaborative translation may be hard. How about using a server in Dili, or even setting up the website/platform at the university?
* Many resources exist in Indonesian. How are these for quality and effective learning? How do students find them?

== Steps ==

Use an OpenCourseWare search engine, e.g. [http://opencontent.org/ocwfinder/ OpenCourseWare Finder], [http://www.ocwconsortium.org/ OCW Consortium] or [http://www.ocwsearch.com OCW Search]

 
[[Category:Curriculum]]
[[Category:Education]]