<!--              **********     RIGHT BOX     **********     -->
{|style="border:1px solid #ffa508; background-color: #D0D0FF; margin-left:.1em; margin-top:2px; -moz-border-radius:10px;" align="right" width="100px"
!<big><big>Engineers Teaching Social Justice Pt. 1</big>
|-
|<center>{{#widget:YouTube|id=LbE_AaquL5E}} </center>
|-
|}
<br>


[http://esjp.org/ Engineering, Social Justice, and Peace] (ESJP) is a network of academics, practitioners, and students in a range of disciplines related to [[engineering]] , [[social justice]], and peace. Our approach works toward engineering practices that enhance gender, racial, class, and cultural equity and are democratic, non-oppressive, and non-violent. We seek to better understand the relationships between engineering practices and the contexts that shape those practices, with the purpose of promoting local-level community empowerment through engineering problem solving, broadly conceived.

==Conference ==

The 2011 ESJP conference took place from July 6 to 9 in Bogota, Colombia. Blog entries from the conference be read on the [http://esjp.org/category/live2011 2011 Liveblog page].

ESJP collaborated in this venture with Universidad de los Andes, which houses one of the premier engineering schools in Latin America; Corporación Universitaria Minuto de Dios Colombia, an institution with a long-standing commitment to social justice; and ISF-Colombia, a leader in initiating projects that provide just solutions to problems faced by poor communities in Colombia since 2005.

The main guiding questions for our conference in Colombia were:
# How are social justice and peace discourses articulated in the practice of community development projects?
# How can academics effectively support the activities of students, community members and marginalized groups in the development of projects that aim at realizing the ideals of social justice and peace?
# How can different actors involved in projects know if they are achieving social justice and peace objectives?

==See Also==
<!--              **********     RIGHT BOX     **********     -->
{|style="border:1px solid #ffa508; background-color: #D0D0FF; margin-left:.1em; margin-top:2px; -moz-border-radius:15px;" align="right" width="100px"
!<big><big>Engineers Teaching Social Justice Pt. 2</big>
|-
|<center>{{#widget:YouTube|id=-QIszbebxQc}} </center>
|-

|}

* [[Just sustainability]]
* [[Bridging the social justice and environmental movements]]
* [[Socially just engineering: Power, resistance, and discourse at site 41]]
* [[:Category:Justice| Justice]]
* [[:Category:Environmental justice]]

==Interwiki Link==
* [http://esjp.wikispaces.com/ ESJP wiki]

==External Link==
*[http://esjp.org/ Engineering, Social Justice, and Peace]

==Journal ==
[http://library.queensu.ca/ojs/index.php/IJESJP The International Journal of Engineering, Social Justice, and Peace] is dedicated to the theory and practice of engineering that extends social justice and peace in the world. Our approach works toward engineering practices that enhance gender, racial, class, and cultural equity and are democratic, non-oppressive, and non-violent. The journal serves practicing engineers, engineering educators, and a general audience that seeks to better understand the progressive potential of engineering. The journal is peer reviewed, and the peer-review process is designed accommodate scholars as well as engineering practitioners and other interested parties. (started 2011)


<!--              **********     RIGHT BOX     **********     -->
{|style="border:1px solid #ffa508; background-color: #D0D0FF; margin-left:.1em; margin-top:2px; -moz-border-radius:15px;" align="right" width="100px"
!<big><big>Engineers Teaching Social Justice Pt. 3</big>
|-
|<center>{{#widget:YouTube|id=pKRPiDo85Es}} </center>
|-

|}


[[Category:Organizations]]
[[Category:Peace]]
[[Category:Social justice]]
[[Category:Engineering]]
[[Category:Environmental justice]]
[[Category:Justice]]
[[Category:Videos]]
[[Category:Culture and community videos]]
[[Category:Engineering videos]]