{{stub}}

[[Category:Organizations]]

EngineerAid provides remote engineering solutions to social development projects within the economically developing countries utilising the internet as a medium of communication and a knowledge transfer system. 

The solutions are provided by professional volunteer engineers working within public and private sector companies around the world who regularly volunteer small amounts of their time online. Instead of sending physical volunteers or funding, EngineerAid puts projects in touch with over 250 specialist engineers (each with an average work experience of 10 years), amounting to a commitment of 474 hours of engineering support per month, the equivalent of £569,000 per annum of engineering resource (at an average UK market value of £100 per hour). Providing technological support has an immediate impact on the quality of life of our target groups, due to EngineerAid's focus on providing them with expertise that is readily available in the developed world, and aiming to bring them at par with standards and innovations that are in use but presently unavailable to them.

EngineerAid's aim is to provide a service with open access, giving simple, direct and timely advice required at any stage of infrastructure building in developing countries, working independently and in collaboration with other NGOs.

In early November 2009, Board Secretary John Paul McKeown and CEO Graeme Towers attended the Know How Now conference hosted by the Institute of Civil Engineers in London. Many other technology-based charities attended, and constructive talks were held focused on how these NGOs could pull together to maximize their impact and better meet their individual goals. Plans are currently in the works to make this conference a biannual event.

Also in November 2009, CEO of EngineerAid Graeme Towers was awarded the Young Engineer of the Year Award by the Institution of Chemical Engineers. IChemE Chief Executive, Dr. David Brown said: “We received a record number of entries this year from over 20 countries. Winning an IChemE award is an outstanding achievement and I congratulate Graeme on his success.” 


==Shirati Hospital Energy Project==

EngineerAid has worked in collaboration with private parties on the ground in Tanzania on energy plans for the Shirati Hospital, a large rural hospital serving an area of 200,000 people on the shores of Lake Victoria.  The hospital is struggling to function in an area with a lot of problems: [[poverty]], AIDS/HIV, mosquitos, endemic malaria, TB, schistosomiasis, contaminated water; and a seriously underequipped hospital with almost no running water, no hot water, and - most vitally - no constant supply of power. Although it receives erratic but generous donations of medicine and basic medical equipment, the frequent power cuts hitting the whole region undermine even the best intentions.

The situation is difficult throughout the hospital, but dire in the Operating Theatre, where emergency operations are carried out most nights. When the power goes in the middle of a pitch-black African night, the three doctors and attendant OT nurses and technicians often have to carry on operating by torches powered by car batteries, and when these run down, by the light of mobile phones.

Currently, this project is in need of funding in order to move on to the next step of implementation of the hospital's supply of running water and uninterruptible power system. Donations in any amount are greatly appreciated at the link found below.

*[http://www.engineeraid.com/shirati/donate.php/ Donate to the project here!]
*[http://www.engineeraid.com/shirati/index.php/ More on the Shirati Hospital Energy Project]


==Contact Information==

*[http://www.engineeraid.com/ EngineerAid Official Website]

E-mail: m.bedinger@engineeraid.com  / Telephone: +44 (0)131 455 6812  /  Address: 219 Colinton Road, Edinburgh, EH14 1DJ  /  Registered Company No: 295533  /  Scottish Charity No: SC037124


==External Links==

*[http://www.engineeraid.com/ EngineerAid Official Website]
*[http://cms.icheme.org/mainwebsite/general-baraec56ff8bc017325.aspx?map=6b6ab6e513601d22e2f38e28479cd188/ Graeme Towers: IChemE Young Engineer of the Year]
*[http://www.engineeraid.com/shirati/index.php/ Shirati Hospital Energy Project]
*[http://www.engineeraid.com/shirati/donate.php/ Donate to the project here!]

.
*[http://eewbb.org.uk/ Engineers Without Borders: Edinburgh]
*[http://www.nabuur.com/ Nabuur]
*[http://www.scienceforhumanity.net/ Science for Humanity]
*[http://www.scotland-malawipartnership.org/ Scotland-Malawi Partnership]
*[http://www.tfsr.org/ Tools for Self Reliance]
*[http://www.udai.org/ UDAI]

.
*[http://www.aidworkers.net/ Aid Workers Network]
*[http://www.engineersagainstpoverty.org/ Engineers Against Poverty]
*[http://practicalaction.org/home/ Practical Action]
*[http://www.redr.org.uk/ RedRUK]
*[http://www.wateraid.org/ WaterAid]