'''Engineers for a Sustainable World (ESW)''' is a nonprofit organization with a network of professionals and students working to reduce [[poverty]] and improve global [[sustainability]].

== Global challenges ==
Every day, over one third of the world’s people are trying to work their way out of poverty. For many, the daily struggle for water, sanitation, energy, and other basic services are barriers to more productive lives. Additionally, the growing world population continues to increase the demand on scarce natural resources, requiring innovative solutions and cooperation to ensure that we can provide for the needs of current and future generations.

== ESW believes that engineers can be a part of the solution ==
Through domestic and [[international development]] work, education, and public outreach, ESW mobilizes engineers to address the challenges of global poverty and sustainability. Our members and volunteers are building a better future by developing innovative technologies, shaping policy, and fostering small-scale enterprise, improving lives and building a more sustainable world.

== External links ==
* [http://www.esustainableworld.org/about/ Engineers for a Sustainable World] website.
* [http://www.eswnu.org/ ESW-NU: Northwestern University Chapter].
* [http://www.engr.psu.edu/IJSLE/Issue%20No%201%20-%20April%202006.htm Learning Sustainable Design through Service], [http://www.engr.psu.edu/IJSLE/Vol%201%20No%201%20-%20April%202006/Learning%20Sustainable%20Design.pdf], by Karim Al-Khafaji and Margaret Catherine Morse, ''[[IJSLE]]'', April 2006. Describes a model of using service-learning to teach [[sustainable design]] based on the experiences of the Stanford chapter of Engineers for a Sustainable World.

[[Category:Sustainability organizations]]