==Opportunity Definition==
[[User:Munimortal|William Dineen]] and [[User:Maccabee|Maccabee "Macc" Shelley]], Humboldt State University undergraduates enrolled in Engineering 305 (Appropriate Technology with lab) will work as interns for Appropedia.org during the Spring semester of 2011.  This team of interns will work independently and as a group to address specific issues with Appropedia.org and determine potential improvements.  For the most part communication within the group will be asynchronous, relying upon BetterMeans.com, email, and a private discussion board hosted by HSU.  All team members have backgrounds in web development and are interested in learning more about wikis.  This project is important for the same reasons Appropedia.org is important: technologies mean nothing if not shared with and integrated into communities.

Update:[[User:Maccabee|Maccabee]] 20:51, 15 February 2011 (PST)
For the next five weeks the intern's work will be directed by [[User:Teratornis|Teratornis]] and involve Appropedia and general wiki tasks.  This page's discussion page will serve as the primary method of communication for now.

==Pages we work on==
*[[H:AIT | Add image tutorial]]

==Literature Review==
This is a review of books, websites, and literature pertinent wikis.  Bibliographic information is presented in Chicago format.

===Web Links===
*[http://openwetware.org/wiki/Main_Page OpenWetWare]
*[http://www.wikisource.org wikisource]
*[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/How_to_edit_a_page How to edit a wiki]
*[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Wiki_markup Wiki Markup]
*[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MediaWiki MediaWiki]
*[http://www.appropedia.org/Special:MostLinkedTemplates Appropedia Templates]

====Links from Lonny====
*[http://www.appropedia.org/Appropedia_talk:Village_pump Village Pump]
*[http://www.appropedia.org/Appropedia:Site_development/Desired_features Appropedia Desired Features]
*[http://www.appropedia.org/User:Teratornis/Tasks Appropedia user Teratornis Tasks]

===Books===
*Chatfield, T. Brian. The complete guide to wikis:  how to set up, use, and benefit from wikis for teachers, business professionals, families, and friends. Ocala, Fla.: Atlantic Pub. Group, 2009.

*Ebersbach, Anja, Markus Glaser, Richard Heigl, and Gunter Dueck. Wiki:  Web collaboration. Berlin: Springer, 2006.

*Woods, Dan, Peter Thoeny, and Ward Cunningham. Wikis for dummies  . Hoboken, N.J.: Wiley Pub. Inc., 2007.

===Journals===
*Sorin , Adam Matei , and Caius  Dobrescu. "Wikipedia's 'Neutral Point of View': Settling Conflict Through Ambiguity." Information Society 27, no. 1 (2011): 40-51.

[[Category:Engr305 Appropriate Technology]]
[[Category:Appropedia internships and volunteering]]