{{Delete|This page should be part of [[Jefferson_Community_Center_native_landscaping_2017]]}}
== ENGR 305 Jefferson Community Center Landscaping Project ==
The following is a short example of the heading structure for a literature review that we went over in class.  Remember in your literature review to not editorialize or make design decisions.  Include only referenced information.  For help with making citations on Appropedia, please see [[Help:Footnotes]]. 

==Literature Review==
This is a review of the available literature relevant to the native landscaping project at Jefferson Community Center. The review consists of the basics for understanding native landscaping, the benefits and advantages, planting and maintenance, and its design. This reviews also explains key elements for the mounds that will be necessary to plant on, and gives an understanding of the local regional climate and soil type. Lastly the review explains important components to consider when using education signage in a community area.

===Native Landscaping===

====Native====
First it is important to define the term native and what is considered a natural range for a species to ensure there is proper understanding and selection of plants during the native landscaping. Native refers to the specific origin or region of a particular species. A native species which occurs in a specific region is a product of natural forces without there being any human interference and (for North American plants) is considered to be growing in the wild before European settlement began 300 years ago. The natural range of a species largely varies from species to species, however it is defined to be the area that a species naturally grows in.

====Benefits and Advantages====
Native landscaping and planting with natives comes with many benefits and advantages. Native plants have a natural defense system against disease and insects, taking away the need for pesticides which helps to keep toxins out of waterways. Once the plants are established, they need only minimal irrigation -keeping water usage at a low. Wildlife also will use native plant communities as a natural habitat which attracts pollinators and preserves the balance of natural ecosystems.

====Planting and Maintenance====
Fall or winter is the prime time to plant because the soil is softer and rain is more frequent, and planting after March requires extra supplemental watering in order to establish a healthy root system. Adding 3-4 in. of compost to the top soil before planting is beneficial for nutrient intake. In terms of spacing, it is suggested to place trees 10-15 ft. apart, shrubs 5-10 ft. apart and ground covers 1-3 ft. apart. To maintain newly transplanted plants, it is important to water them deeply and frequently for the first two summers to support healthy growth. Once established though native plants only require watering during the driest parts of summer. Plants may be moved to a different location if they do not appear to be thriving well to  where they will do better. It is also important to hand pull weeds so the weeds do not rob the native plants of any nutrients, especially in the beginning. 

===Landscape Design===
The goal of landscape design is to use natural features of the area blended with foreign elements to create a landscape that is both ecologically sustainable and aesthetically pleasing. The three main factors to consider when designing an ecologically sustainable garden are the climatic, cultural, and ecological conditions of an area. To reach sustainability, resources have to be treated not as expendable commodities, but rather as a system that should balance inputs and outputs. For design purposes, small plants should be placed where they will not be blocked out by sun and where they will be most noticed (around the edges of the garden).

====Mounds====
To fit into garden design, mounds (or berms) should be large enough and gently sloped so that they have a more natural appearance. They are particularly useful in drainage. To be effective, they must be gently sloped enough to support plants and not erode with rainfall and other natural conditions. They should not be taller than about 24 inches and must be 4-6 times as long as they are wide. A diversion ditch may also be advisable, with at least a minor downward grade leading away from the site to be drained.

====Soil====
One thing to consider when preparing a site for landscaping is soil quality, mainly watching out for poor water drainage and compaction. Properly drained soil should be an even mix of solid material and surrounding space, either water or air. An excessive water table can be problematic because it promotes anaerobic conditions. Soil quality can be diminished if topsoil is removed and not replenished. Many parts of the Klamath region of California have a high density of igneous rocks, which has a high impact on ecosystem growth. Trees under these conditions are often more spread out and fail to be very productive.

===Regional Climate===
“Geographic features such as topography, altitude, proximity to the coast, and latitude to a certain extent define a local area’s weather patterns.” Eureka is known to be a very coastal environment, with very low altitude in the area we will be working, which must be considered. The specific site we are working in, due to the water collection and drainage system in place, resembles and mimics a riparian habitat. In general, the temperature of the region fluctuates very little from season to season and there is rain nearly year round, though much lighter in the summer. Fog and low clouds are prevalent and so it might be unwise to use plants that have high sun needs. Based on evapotranspiration patterns, there will generally be soil moisture until July in the Humboldt coastal region. The North Coast subregion of the NW California region supports marsh, coastal scrub and fir forests.

===Educational Signage===
Signage will be a key component of the project, so it is important to understand what makes signs effective and favorable. Signs are important to give an outdoor learning center an identity. They can be simple or complex, however they just need to be clear and are best when they represent the character of the community. First time visitors of an area tend to read signs the majority of the time, though repeat visitors are known to reread signs when the signs have desirable information, aesthetics and location. Motivators for reading signs are mostly influenced by the signs’ location (if they are easily visible and in a natural stopping point), when people are naturally interested in the topic, and are motivated by their surrounding environment to seek particular information. An ideal sign would have a three-dimensional image of what it is representing, a large title, shows something that cannot easily be seen (such as something underground), and located at a natural rest stop.

==References==
{{Reflist}}

[[Category:Engr305 Appropriate Technology]]

<ref>This is an example of footnotes.</ref>