== Description ==
Engineering 305 (Engr 305), Appropriate Technology, is a course on [[appropriate technology]] at [[HSU|Humboldt State University]] taught by instructor [[User:Lonny|Lonny Grafman]].

== Selected projects for Spring Semester 2017 ==
Please also see the related projects notes under potential projects as well. 

*[[CCAT rainwater 2017]] 
** See [[CCAT rainwater catchment system]]

*[[CCAT greenhouse dehumidifier]]
** See [[CCAT greenhouse]] and [[CCAT Beach Grass Clay Slip Wall]]

*[[CCAT natural paints 2017]]
** See [[CCAT natural paints]] and the linked recipes.

*[[CCAT terrace plasters 2017]]
*see [[CCAT earthbag garden terrace]] and some other ccat plasters. Your scope might expand to other plasters as well.

*[[CCAT compost 2017]] 
**See [[CCAT Compost System]]

*[[CCAT solar kiosk]]
** See some of the great projects at [[Book:Photovoltaics:_Projects_and_how-tos]]

*[[CCAT greywater 2017]]
** See [[CCAT greywater marsh (current)]] and related links.

*[[Jefferson Community Center native landscaping 2017]]
**[[Jefferson Community Center edible landscape]]

*[[HCOE bike power classroom]]
** See some of the great projects at [[Bicycle power]]

*[[CCAT cold box 2017]]
** See the  [[CCAT cold box]], [[CCAT cold box/OM]], and [[CCAT cold box/Interview]]
PS We might change these names later, depending on the how the scope gets adapted and how we integrate into the past projects.

== Potential projects for Spring Semester 2017 ==
The following is a list of potential projects.  Talk to me about more.

===Projects at [[CCAT]]===
* [[CCAT kiosk stand]] [1-2 people]
* Data logging [1-2 people]
** Solar first and then greenhouse
* Rainwater upgrade [2-3 people]
** Resizing, labeling, gutter, testing, cleaning, pumping
* Dehumidifying the greenhouse [1-2 people]
* Natural paint project [1-4 people]
** Descending priorities: Downstairs, Living room east wall, dining room, kitchen, then rest of living room 
* Updating the earthbag garden terrace plasters [1-2 people] (high priority) 
* Testing and upgrading chillbox [1-2 people] 
** maybe moving it to the wall 
* New Compost [2-3 people]
* Upgrade solar kiosk [1-2 people]
* Greywater redesign [2-4 people]

====Project with Jefferson Community Center====
*[[Jefferson Center Native Plant Park Part II]] - Working with Lost Foods and Native Plant Society focusing on Native Foods and medicinals that are becoming lost
**Begin working on this right away - at the beginning of the semester to design scope and plan
**Get plan approved and native plants in ground before spring
**Work on signage, curriculum, and/or outreach for the remainder of the project/semester
*See examples of past JCC projects:
**[[Jefferson Community Center edible landscape]] <-- most relevant
**[[Jefferson Community Center compost]]
**[[Jefferson Community Center vermiculture teach-in]]
**[[Jefferson Community Center workshop 2013]]

===Projects with Bart===
*[[Projects with Bart]]
**[[Willow Basket Parabolic Solar Cooker]]
**[[Earthen Solar Cookers]]
**[[The Parabolic Wheel of Revolution!]]
**[[Stadium Light Solar Cookers#Use Of Stadium Light Reflector As A Wash-Basin and For Heating Water]]

===More Projects===
*[[Gravity fed drip irrigation, semi-automated]]

===Projects at [[Bayside Park Farm]]===

===Projects at Sanctuary Arcata===

===Project with Zero Waste Humboldt===
* Reusable bag construction and analysis
**design and build reusable bags out of durable, recycled (or otherwise appropriate) material(s)
**determine if their bags last longer than bags marketed as reusable. 
**compare at least three different repeatable alternatives and provide analysis of materials, energy inputs and pollution potentials.

===Project with Humboldt County of Education===
*Bike power class with at-risk youth in Eureka
**Humboldt State University students will have an opportunity to serve the community and work with at risk youth in building upon student strengths in hands on practical life skills. Two students will provide a 50 minute elective class at the Lincoln Therapeutic Learning Classroom once per week. The project will focus on developing electricity from bicycle power. HSU students will develop curriculum and implement the elective class under the supervision of the classroom teacher, classroom specialists, and on-site administration. The Lincoln Therapeutic Learning Classroom (TLC) is located in Eureka, CA at the Lincoln school site. The Lincoln TLC consists of 5 students with a focus on socio-emotional, academic, and practical life skills. 
**Other project options including developing an edible garden and papermaking project.
**Fingerprinting clearance for HSU Environmental Engineering students and all supplies will be covered by the Humboldt County Office of Education.

===Personal projects===

[[Category:Engr305 Appropriate Technology]]
[[Category:Service learning courses]]