{{DISPLAYTITLE:ePartogram}}
{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Preventative, Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa
|Image=Epartogram.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Maternal death rates are often high in resource-poor settings because of inefficient and inaccurate labor assessment and delayed complication management.  The paper partogram, although a useful tool for monitoring and assessing the progress of labor, remains cumbersome and time-consuming. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
The ePartogram is an affordable, easy-to-operate, efficient and comprehensive electronic alternative to the paper partogram. It is a hand-held device that allows for more efficient recording of clinical observations, more accurate predictions of complications, and more rapid decision-making. It includes a sensor module for partial automation of data collection and a telemedicine module that allows midwives to obtain support and guidance from distant senior-level clinicians. Thus, the ePartogram supports front-line workers and brings essential services to women.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Jhpiego Corportion, Johns Hopkins University Center for Bio-Engineering Innovation and Design, Laerdal Global Health
*Manufacturer location: Baltimore, Maryland, USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Lab or bench testing will take place mainly in Baltimore, MD, while field testing is likely to take place in Kenya.
 
==Funding Source==
Saving Lives at Birth: Grand Challenge for Development

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
ePartogram.  (n.d.).  Johns Hopkins University Center for Bioengineering Innovation and Design.
Retrieved November 14, 2012 from [http://eng.jhu.edu/wse/cbid/page/epartogram here]. 

ePartogram.  (2011, April 25). Tech Briefs: Create the Future Design Contest 2012.  Retrieved
November 14, 2012 from [http://contest.techbriefs.com/medical-2011/1247 here].

Global: Field-Testing Electronic Lifesaving Tool for Prevention and Management of Complications
during Labor.  (n.d.). Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health: Center for Adolescent
Health. Retrieved November 14, 2012 from [http://www.jhsph.edu/research/centers-and-institutes/center-for-adolescent-health/research/project_page.html?gf_id=4591&project_id=8358 here].  

===Externally generated reports===
E-Partogram.  (2012, May 16).  Saving Lives at Birth:  A Grand Challenge for Development.  Retrieved
November 14, 2012 from [http://www.savinglivesatbirth.net/summaries/35 here]. 

The Innovators—Neonatal Technologies Forum.  (n.d.).  National Collegiate Inventors and Innovators Alliance. Retrieved November 14, 2012 from [http://nciia.org/neonatalforum/innovators here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->