Hello All,
I hope the semester is treating you well as midterms start to roll
around (and on top) of us.

==Tack Board:==
I am proud to announce that Engineers Without Borders now has a tack
board in the science building!  WOOOOO!

==Bolivia Trip:==
Planning is moving along for this summer's Bolivia trip, we are
currently thinking of leaving on August first and getting back before
school starts next fall.  It will be a survey trip in which we chart
out potential projects and get to know "the lay of the land".  We
would LOVE for you to come with us so just find us at school or reply
to this newsletter

==EWB Website:==
In a previous e-mail I mentioned our website, but never gave you the
address.  That address is http://userwww.sfsu.edu/~ewb/ We hope to
post bios/pics of the involved persons, meeting minuits, calendar,
etcetera, so keep updated!

==Good Job ASME!==
I'de like to give a big shout out to ASME and Scott McGaraghan for
putting together today's EnerNOC seminar.  It was totally inspiring to
see how people are applying good ideas to improve the world.  And
Tim's home-made cookies were awesome!  EWB hereby has an opening for a
cookie secretary (or secretaries) to bring cookies to our meetings!


==Calender of Events:==

====Tuesday and Wednesday, (March 11th and 12th)====
If you want to see SFSU professor applicants sweat out their
interview, they will be giving public presentations tomorrow and
Wednesday at 1pm in SCI 256.

====Tuesday, March 11th====
I will be going to the meeting of the [[Haiti]] group of EWB-SFP (the San
Francisco Professional Chapter of Engineers Without Borders).  I'll be
trying to build relationships with the pros and learn what I can.  If
you want to come with me, just reply.

====Thursday, March 13th====
ASME is sponsoring "March Madness" with 3 live bands, BBQ, prizes and
more in the SFSU Quad from noon to 2pm.

====Grid alternatives====
March 26 at 6:00pm
We are hoping to go to a Grid Alternatives Orientation to learn how to
install solar panels.  If you are interested in attending, shoot us an
e-mail.
{{catneeded}}