'''Objective''': Make fabrication facilities and resources accessible. 

Fab Focus is a virtual hub to facilitate the development of physical production hubs known as Open Source Fab Labs and the partner networks required to sustain them. [http://openfarmtech.org/index.php?title=Bryan_Bishop The Austin Fab Lab] and [http://openfarmtech.org/ Factor e Farm] are [[Fab Partners]] in this movement. 

This hub is to facilitate coordination and participation. That begins with discussion at [http://groups.google.com/group/openmanufacturing Open Manufacturing] and ends with usable resources found from here. Develop and use these resources and add as needed.

= Fab Discussion Focus =
== Context ==
=== Nathan Cravens ===
"Here is a model to use when approaching the Open Manufacturing list with your design inquires. Please revise it for general use. The [http://groups.google.com/group/openmanufacturing Open Manufacturing list] began as a discussion of theory. We now need to move forward and collaborate for action in order to put theory to practice."

== MiniCollaboration Platform ==
*Define the production-in-focus
*Make a concise wiki for each project to inform our group.
*Be extremely open source
*State your project clearly to the [http://groups.google.com/group/openmanufacturing Open Manufacturing list] to incite collaboration.

== Make Collaborators ==
Inquire the group for... 

*'''knowledge'''
*'''materials'''
*'''funding'''
*'''participation'''

In general practice this looks like...

*Who has the production '''knowledge''' for construction? What is the most effective knowledge to use? 
*Where can the '''materials''' be found? Who has them freely available to contribute? (or) Where can they be found for least cost? 
*How can we attract '''funding'''? Where can we attract it? Will you fund the production-in-focus? 
*Who will '''participate'''? 
*Show how! Reflect this in discussion and your wiki.
 

Let's perfect the art of...

*'''vision'''
*'''organization'''
*'''fabrication'''
*'''documentation'''
*'''replication'''


Add to these lists as you see fit.

= Resources =
== [[Fab Partners]] ==
Partner community fabrication facilities and the people that organize them.

== [[Fab Lab Organization]] ==
Organization methods for fabrication facilities are currently [http://groups.google.com/group/openmanufacturing/browse_thread/thread/2c3c05a3054d8934 under discussion]. See [[Fab Lab Organization]] for the brainstorm highlights.

== [[Fab Instruction]] ==
Step-by-step instructions are documented using the most effective media. This section describes what can be placed in the '''Fab Instruction''' of each product wiki.

== [[Physical Resources]] ==
Available physical materials are listed in addition to the knowledge already generated. This section describes what to place in the '''Physical Resources''' of each product wiki.

== [[Fab Lab Benefits]] ==
Benefits for fabricators and investors

== [[Open Business Models]] ==
The first business model of focus helps produce fabrication facilities and facility network.

== [[Community Marketing]] ==
Social networking and viral marketing resources. Organizational models are developed as needed.

== [[Open Source Hardware Businesses]] ==



[[Category:Fab labs]]
[[Category:Manufacturing]]
[[Category:Planning]]