= Personal Fabricator Benefit =
*A Fab Lab to use. 
*The entrepreneurial fabricator receives income based on average hourly construction time when building for others.
*If average hourly paid block time remains static, the innovative fabricator has further incentive to reduce construction time, automating construction until "no assembly required." The Maker then needs the same or further access to material resources, addressed below, in order to accelerate automation practices.

= Benefits for Investors =
*You are investing in a [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Long_Tail Long Tail] economic model: flexible product customization with a trend toward stronger purchasing power. 
*Your investment far exceeds the purchase price you and others will pay for a finished product. In other words, more money stays in your pocket after fab facilities are built and your product is generated. 
*Use of fabrication facilities are no charge by appointment to construct DIY. Your monetary investment and your effort reduces cost to materials alone. If you are new to a fabrication process, a network of experienced individuals will donate their time to help you by means mutual interest and a well designed organizational platform within a socially networked community. 
*For buyers, your investment generates a finished product purchased "fabricator direct" for far less than any market price. Your investment generated this savings. Also, you can customize your item to meet your unique needs. Current Industrial standards suspect most investors will opt for this option more often until more detailed instructive documentation or automation of assembly enhances the productive chain.

= Full Automation Fund =
This provides an income, if necessary, to fully automate a fabrication-in-focus. Full automation is in everyone's interest, including the interests of the fabricator. Achieving this goal produces more abundantly. If all organizations of production practice this method, each monetary metric will increase in value until a monetary metric is no longer required for resource management. Full automation begins with retiring human tasks and ends by creating a closed loop of materials regeneration in a manner most ecologically sound.
===Consequences of Full Automation===
A [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_income Basic Income] must be in place to continue resource acquisition and Fab Lab rights if material scarcity or lack of volunteerism remains in the chain.

Further, when full automation is common place in a majority of areas of production, monetary systems, likely revised many times over before entering this hypothetical environment, must retire onto an ethical system of use and acquisition, ideally one that can provide for any human want or need while maintaining the historical ecology of pre-Industrial occupation.

These consequences depend on the evolution of a freely available, highly adaptive, and regenerative ''personal'' communications media, organizational structures, and technological infrastructures.

[[Category:Fab labs]]