'''Farming without sunlight''' is the practice of cultivating food with artificial light (instead of solar irradiation), or alternatively without any light at all.<ref>[http://www.independent.co.uk/news/science/shoots-in-the-dark-farming-without-sunlight-2360833.html Farming without sunlight]</ref> It is done underground, or in a location above ground (for example in windowless rooms in buildings). It is usually done using hydroponics, aeroponics or air-dynaponics systems or container gardens. The artificial light is generally provided by means of [[grow lamp]]s<ref>[http://www.gizmag.com/aerofarms-urban-agriculture/15371/ Underground farming lighting system using LEDs]</ref> or [[daylighting]] systems (as [[light tube]]s).<ref>[http://www.technologyreview.com/blog/deltav/25740/ Underground lighting]</ref> Sometimes, special modifications are done to improve the system even more. These can include water-jacketed lighting system, NFT double pass growing system with moveable racks, ...<ref>[http://www.growingedge.com/magazine/back_issues/view_article.php3?AID=170534 Special features of the South Pole Growth Chamber]</ref>

== Purpose ==
Farming systems that do not use sunlight are still very uncommon. This is primarily due to the high cost involved. As such, they are currently only popularly used for the cultivation of [[cash crop]]s such as illicit drugs (ie Cannabis) and for cultivating food in very harsh environments (ie on other planets, on the poles, ...). Another popular use is for growing mushrooms, as underground cavities retain a lot of humidity (which mushrooms require) and as the mushrooms don't need any sunlight at all (they don't photosynthesize). However, they can also be of great value to people who wish to grow their own food, yet do not have aduquate space for this (for example, people living in appartments). As underground farming systems become more cost effective, it can thus be expected that more people will make use of them.

==Present systems==
* The [[Lunar greenhouse]] is an underground farm made by [[Phil Sadles]] and [[Gene Giacomelli]] of the [[University of Arizona's Controlled Environment Agriculture Center]] (CEAC)<ref>[http://www.space.com/9353-lunar-greenhouse-grow-food-future-moon-colonies.html Lunar greenhouse]</ref><ref>Kijk magazine, editie 13, 2010</ref> The urine and exhaled air of the astronauts is reused in the system by the plants.<ref>[http://www.technologyreview.com/blog/deltav/25740/ Reuse of urine and exhaled air]</ref>
* The [http://www.hungry-planet-farms.com/ Hungry Planet Farms "Flash Farm"] is a vertical farm set up in shipping container. It was designed by Brittany Ferguson. This approach allows to transport entire farms to developing countries and or might also prove suitable for food production on vehicles (ie ships, ...)<ref>Hungry Planet Farms project idea submitted at http://startsomethingthatmatters.maker.good.is/projects/HungryPlanetFarms?sort=941</ref>

==See also==
* [[Rooftop farming]]
* [[Vertical farming]]

==References==
{{reflist}}

[[Category:Urban agriculture]]
[[Category:Types of garden]]