{{w|Finite element analysis}} (FEA) is  is a numerical technique for finding approximate solutions of partial differential equations as well as integral equations. This page will describe how to use FEA to analyze the mechanical structure of [[photovoltaic]] racking systems. FEA allows detailed visualization of where structures bend or twist, and indicates the distribution of stresses and displacements.

=Finite Element Analysis - Literature Review=


===Sources===

[https://www.sharcnet.ca/Software/Abaqus610/Documentation/docs/v6.10/index.html Abaqus 6.10 Documentation]

===Basics===

In every FEA is always good to:

* Start with simple models and gradually modify as the simulations present plausible results.
* Always check, if possible, FEA results with analytical results.

For general purposes, the steps below summarizes the basic procedure followed when modelling in Abaqus.

* Open Abaqus/CAE[ ] and choose a Standard/Explicit model.
* Create a part and sketch it according to the kind of structure you are dealing with.
* Create materials and specify all the properties.
* Define and assign sections. The properties of a part are defined by sections.
* Assemble the part by creating an instance.
* Request the data output according to the variables you want to study (i.e. forces, displacements, stresses...).
* Create a step to which the loads are going to be defined. There is already a step called "initial" to which the Boundary Conditions are defined.
* Apply the loads and Boundary Conditions according to the problem.
* Mesh the model. Specify the element type and the global seed.
* Create and Submit a Job. If no errors are found, the simulation is ready to have its data evaluated.
* In "Results", the data generated by the simulation can be analyzed by plotting contours of the requested variables, evaluating the deformed and undeformed shapes plots, printing tabular reports etc.

[[Category:MOST methods]]
[[Category:Mechanical engineering]]