{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Prototype, Clinical trial
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=FireflyVietnam.png
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Jaundice, caused by hyperbilirubinemia or breast milk jaundice, affects sixty percent of all newborns worldwide.  It can lead to long-term disabilities or even brain damage. It is caused by factors in the breast milk which prevent the baby’s liver from processing old red blood cells correctly. Phototherapy is a cost-effective treatment for this condition.

==Detailed description of the solution==
Firefly is a phototherapy device has been developed specifically for resource-limited settings. It provides both top and bottom phototherapy treatment while remaining low-cost. It ensures that the treatment is effective, despite changes in the baby’s position. It is designed to be easily maintained and disinfected, reducing the chances of infection for the infants.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Design that Matters (DtM)[http://designthatmatters.org/] and East Meets West [http://www.eastmeetswest.org/]
*Manufacturing: This device is manufactured by MTTS and is made in Vietnam

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
This device has undergone clinical trials at the National OB/GYN Hospital in Hanoi, Vietnam.

==Funding Source==
Design that Matters (DtM) receives numerous funding support from the following entities: (Full listing available [http://designthatmatters.org/about/sponsors/ here].)
*Alliance for Global Sustainability
*Ashoka Foundation
*Bridgeway Charitable Foundation
*Choate Hall & Steward LLP
*DLA Piper
*Draper Richards Foundation
*IDEO
*MIT IDEAS Competition
*MIT Laboratory for Energy and the Environment
*MIT Media Lab
*MIT Public Service Center
*Museum of Science
*SolidWorks Corporation
*The Lynch Foundation
*Thanksgiving Fund
*USAID

==References==
===Internally generated reports===
Project Firefly: Infant Phototherapy. (n.d.). Design that Matters. Link available [http://designthatmatters.org/portfolio/projects/firefly/ here].

===Externally generated reports===
Firefly: SolidFly 2011 Talk. (2011). Link available [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZFIldedcjEU/ here].

Firefly: Project Firefly Wins Spark Design Award. (2011).  Link available [http://designthatmatters.org/news/dtm-blog/2011/07/project_firefly.php here].