In a famine, special [[foods]] are needed which act as [[nutritional supplements]], to quickly build strength and restore malnourished individuals.

Some important examples:
* [[Unimix]]{{w|Unimix}} is a vitamin-enriched flour for making [[porridge]].
* [[Plumpy'nut]]{{w|Plumpy'nut}} is a high [[protein]] and high [[energy]] [[peanut]]-based paste in a foil wrapper. It is fortified with vitamins and is slightly sweeter than [[peanut butter]]. It is easy for children to eat. It is categorized as a Ready-to-Use [[Therapeutic food|Therapeutic Food]] (RUTF). It has a 2 year shelf life, and is easy to deploy in difficult conditions. It is distributed under medical supervision, and used together with Unimix (above). Ingredients: peanut paste, [[vegetable oil]], [[powdered milk]], [[powdered sugar]], [[vitamin]]s, and [[mineral]]s.
* [[Atmit]]{{w|Atmit}} is used in [[famine relief]]. Ingredients: rolled oats, powdered milk, powdered sugar, vitamins, and minerals, and is used to feed severely malnourished and weakened adults and children. During 1985 and 1986 it was used in Ethiopia<ref>Project Mercy sent 930 tons to Ethiopia{{fact}}</ref>, and it has been used in other countries since then.

== Cautions ==
* Malnourishment may occur for reasons other than an externally-imposed crisis, such as [[drought]] or war, e.g. poor dietary habits, growing foods that are inadequate for good nutrition. These reasons need to be seriously addressed as well.<ref>E.g. see the anecdote about distributing Plumpy'Nut in Rwanda, in [http://aidwatchers.com/2010/04/the-plumpy%E2%80%99nut-dustup/#comment-11240 this blog comment].</ref>
* Even resistance to drought might be able to be mitigated through appropriate food growing techniques, choice of crops, and especially [[rainwater harvesting]] techniques such as [[groundwater recharge]]. Of course, these are long term solutions, and do not affect the need for effective food supplements in the short term.

== Notes ==
<small><references/></small>
*{{cite news
  |first=
  |last=
  |pages=
  |title=Atmit distribution aimed at saving lives in Niger
  |date=August 23, 2005
  |publisher=ReliefWeb: Catholic Relief Services
  |url=http://www.reliefweb.int/rw/RWB.NSF/db900SID/ACIO-6FJPV4?OpenDocument
}}
*{{cite news
  |first=
  |last=
  |pages=
  |title=Thousands grateful for Atmit in Ethiopia
  |date=June 24, 2009
  |publisher=LDS Philanthropies: Humanitarian Services
  |url=http://www.ldsphilanthropies.org/humanitarian-services/news-features/thousands-grateful-for-atmit.html
}}

==See also==
* [[Chlorella pyrenoidosa]]: another food yielding high amounts of protein (and fat if properly cultivated)
* [[Algae as fuel]]

== External links ==

* [http://foreignpolicy.com/2009/10/08/let-them-eat-plumpynut/ Let Them Eat Plumpy’Nut], ''Foreign Policy'', Oct 8, 2009. Examines various issues of emergency food supplies and nutrition. 

{{stub}}

[[Category:Famine relief]]
[[Category:Emergency management]]