A '''fuel-powered turbine''' is a [[turbine]] that is powered by a fuel (ie a liquid or a gas).<ref>[http://www.intechopen.com/books/advances-in-gas-turbine-technology/biofuel-and-gas-turbine-engines Biofuel turbine engine term]</ref> Unlike ie steam turbines, the fuel burned is immediatelly used to turn the turbine blades. As such, the step of converting fuel to steam is skipped and fuel-powered turbines are hence more efficient then [[steam turbine]]s. This article specifically focuses on turbines of a small size intented for the purpose of local electricity supply.

==Types==
Both gas and liquid-fueled microturbines should be distinguished, as they vary slightly in regards to the design.

===DIY gas and liquid-fueled microturbines===
The simplest form of self-constructed gas turbine employs an automotive [[turbocharger]] as the core component. A combustion chamber is fabricated and plumbed between the compressor and turbine sections.<ref>[http://www.pfranc.com/projects/turbine/top.htm Homemade turbine projects]</ref><ref name="Scrapheap Challenge, gas turbine go-cart" >{{cite web
  |title=UK TV series, "[[Scrapheap Challenge]]", "Jet Racer" episode
  |url=http://www.channel4.com/science/microsites/S/scrapheap2003/challenges/jet_racer/
  |year=2003
}}</ref>
The [[Kurt Schreckling|Schreckling]] design<ref name="Schreckling, Gas Turbines for Model Aircraft" /> constructs the entire engine from raw materials, including the fabrication of a centrifugal compressor wheel from plywood, epoxy and wrapped carbon fibre strands.<ref name="Schreckling, Gas Turbines for Model Aircraft" >{{cite book
  |last=Schreckling  |first=Kurt
  |title=Gas Turbines for Model Aircraft
  |year=1994
  |isbn=0-9510589-1-6
}}</ref>

===Commercial microturbines===
Several companies have started to produce microturbines, mostly for the purpose of energy production, as well as for use as a "range extender" in electric vehicles.<ref>[
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Range_extender#Range_anxiety_elimination Range extenders]</ref>

Notable companies are:
* [http://www.bowmanpower.com/ Bowman Power] produces the TurbogenTM microturbines
* [http://www.capstoneturbine.com Capstone]
* [http://www.elliott-turbo.com Elliot Energy Systems]
* [http://www.irpowerworks.com Ingersoll-Rand (IR)]
* [http://www.turbec.com Turbec AB]
* [http://www.mtt-eu.com/applications/range-extender Micro Turbine Technology BV]
* [http://www.bladonjets.com/ Bladonjets]

Some other companies as Garrett and Deutz also produce microturbines<ref>Garrett GTP 30-67 used by University of Florence</ref><ref>Deutz T216 turbine</ref>

==See also==
* [[Wind turbine]]: another form of turbine
* [[Holzwarth gas turbine]]
* [[Pulse jet engine]]

==References==
* http://www.bioturbine.org/Workshop/BIOTURBINE-Workshop-DraftAgenda-040922.pdf
* http://www.bioliquids-chp.eu/index.php?id=37&rid=12&r=algemeen
{{reflist}}

==External links==
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gas_turbine#Microturbines
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gas_turbine#Amateur gas turbines
* http://www.lambert-modellturbinen.de/html/english.html
* http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:GasTurbine.jpg
* http://www.wbdg.org/images/media_img.php?m=microturbines_4lg.jpg&w=488&h=330
* http://www.wbdg.org/resources/microturbines.php

[[Category:Energy conversion]]