{{MOST}} [[category:MOST methods]]
'''Glass Substrate Cleaning'''

==Purpose==

Glass substrates are used in many laboratory settings. Clean slides prevent contamination of the sample allow for correct deposition of materials. The primary function of this method is to provide a strategy to remove everything from a glass substrate surface. This would effectively make the used slides function as if they were new slides. 

==Methodology==
 Method 1 (For cleaned substrates with higher tolerances)
===[https://www.inrf.uci.edu/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/sop-wet-cleaning-pro-for-glass-substrates.pdf Acetone]===
Pour Acetone in a container and warm it up on a hot plate (not exceeding 55 deg C).

Place glass substrate in warm Acetone for 10 minutes.

Place glass substrate in methanol for 2-5 minutes.

Remove and rinse in DI water, then blow dry with nitrogen gas (if possible ultrasonically clean in solution).

===[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isopropyl_alcohol Propan-2-ol]===
Apply to slide, dry with nitrogen gas (if possible ultrasonically clean in solution).

===[http://www.conservation-wiki.com/wiki/Deionized_water Deionized Water]===
Apply to slide, dry with nitrogen gas (if possible ultrasonically clean in solution).

Each solution can be made into a heated bath to improve the cleaning effect. 


 Method 2 (For cleaned substrates with tighter tolerances)
===[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alkali Alkaline Solution(dawn dish soap)]===
Apply to slide, rub with paper towel and rinse off (if possible ultrasonically clean in solution).

===[https://www.inrf.uci.edu/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/sop-wet-cleaning-pro-for-glass-substrates.pdf Acetone] <ref> UC Irvine. "Cleaning procedures for glass substrates," PDF </ref>===

Pour Acetone in a container and warm it up on a hot plate (not exceeding 55 deg C).

Place glass substrate in warm Acetone for 10 minutes.

Place glass substrate in methanol for 2-5 minutes.

Remove and rinse in DI water, then blow dry with nitrogen gas (if possible ultrasonically clean in solution).

===[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0956566399000433 Methanolic HCl] <ref> J.J Cras, C.A Rowe-Taitt, D.A Nivens, F.S Ligler. "Comparison of chemical cleaning methods of glass in preparation for salinization," Biosensors and Bioelectronics, vol.14, No. 8-9, pp.683-688, Dec 1999 </ref>===
Dip slide in 1:1 MeOH:HCl for 30 minutes, then rinse in DI water, and dry under Nitrogen gas.

===[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plasma_etching Oxygen Etching]===
Follow proper protocol for device used.

===[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0956566399000433 Propan-2-ol] <ref> J.J Cras, C.A Rowe-Taitt, D.A Nivens, F.S Ligler. "Comparison of chemical cleaning methods of glass in preparation for salinization," Biosensors and Bioelectronics, vol.14, No. 8-9, pp.683-688, Dec 1999 </ref> ===
Dip slide in 10% KOH in isopropanol for 30 minutes,
rinse in DI water, dry under Nitrogen gas.

===[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0956566399000433 Sodium Hydroxide <ref> J.J Cras, C.A Rowe-Taitt, D.A Nivens, F.S Ligler. "Comparison of chemical cleaning methods of glass in preparation for salinization," Biosensors and Bioelectronics, vol.14, No. 8-9, pp.683-688, Dec 1999 </ref> ] (Acid Bath)===
Dip slide for 20 minutes in 1M NaOH solution, incubate for 30 minutes in [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Piranha_solution Piranha solution] (Optional),
rinse in DI water, dry under Nitrogen gas.

==Applications==
*General substrate control. 
*Micro-scale cleaning

==Cost==
{| class="wikitable" style="float:right; margin:.5em"
|-
! Method  
! Cost of Solution (Per Litre) 
! Cost/Batch (30 Substrates dipped in 200ml of Solution)
|-
| Acetone
| $25-40
| $5-8
|-
| Propanol
| $20-40 
| $4-8
|-
| Dawn dish soap
| $10-15 
| $2-3
|-
| Methanolic HCl
| $40-80 (mixture of Hcl and MeOH)
| $8-16 (100ml MeOH + 100ml HCl)
|-
| Propanol 
| $28-40 
| $5.6-8
|-
|Sodium Hydroxide
|$18-52
|$3.6-10.4
|}
{{clear}}

==References==