'''The Sustainable Energy for All Global Tracking Framework Report''', released at the Vienna Energy Forum, answers these questions:
# How many people around the world lack access to electricity and safe household fuels?
# What’s the share of renewable energy in the global mix?
# How are we doing in improving energy efficiency?

About 1.2 billion people don’t have access to electricity, 2.8 billion have to rely on wood or other biomass to cook and heat their homes, renewable energy accounts for 18 percent of the global energy mix. The improvement rate of energy efficiency, described by a compound annual growth rate of energy intensity (CAGR), was -1.3 percent between 1990 and 2010.

About 80 percent of those without access to modern energy live in rural areas. Although 1.7 billion people gained access to electricity between 1990 and 2010, this is only slightly ahead of population growth of 1.6 billion over the same period.  The pace of expansion will have to double to meet the 100 percent access target by 2030. To bring electricity to that one billion plus people using conventional energy sources would increase global carbon dioxide emissions by less than one percent.

==Abstract==
In declaring 2012 the international year of sustainable energy for all, the United Nations (UN) general assembly (2011) established at the personal initiative of the UN secretary general- three global objectives to be accomplished by 2030. Those goals are to ensure universal access to modern energy services (including electricity and clean, modern cooking solutions), to double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency, and to double the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix. Some 70 countries have formally embraced the Sustainable Energy for All (SE4ALL) initiative, while numerous corporations and agencies have pledged tens of billions of dollars to achieve its objectives. As 2012 drew to a close, the UN general assembly announced a decade of sustainable energy for all stretching from 2014 to 2024. Sustaining momentum for the achievement of the SE4ALL objectives will require a means of charting global progress over the years leading to 2030. Construction of the necessary framework has been coordinated by the World Bank and Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) and the International Energy Agency (IEA), in collaboration with 13 other agencies. The process has benefited from public consultation with more than a hundred stakeholder groups. This report provides an initial system for regular global reporting based on indicators that are both technically rigorous and feasible to compute from current global energy databases, and that offer scope for progressive improvement over time.



Full text: http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2013/05/17765643/global-tracking-framework-vol-3-3-main-report

[[Category:Energy]]
[[Category:Renewable energy]]
[[Category:Energy efficiency]]