It is possible to do terrible harm with '''good intentions'''. But good intentions with proper awareness can create great things (see [[#Antidotes]] below).

{{TOCright}}
== Political leaders ==

Consider Julius Nyerere,{{w|Julius Nyerere}} first President of [[Tanzania]], praised for his principles but who brought economic disaster on his country, and with it great suffering. In his farewell speech, commenting on his economic policies, he said "I failed. Let's admit it."<ref>[[Karl Maier]]; ''[http://www.nytimes.com/books/first/m/maier-house.html Into the House of the Ancestors]''; [[New York Times]]; 1998</ref>

Compare Sukarno{{w|Sukarno}} and Suharto{{w|Suharto}}, the first two presidents of [[Indonesia]]. The first was a much-loved leader who led his nation to independence, and then through much political turmoil and into a stagnant [[economy]] and cases of serious hunger. The second is widely regarded as having been brutal and corrupt, but he followed some of the key advice of his advisors, a group of [[technocrats]]<ref>These technocrats, nicknamed the a,{{w|Berkeley Mafia}} led a program emphasizing some deregulation, bringing inflation under control, balancing the budget, rehabilitation of infrastructure, and development of the agriculture sector.</ref> who helped lead Indonesia through many years of growth.<ref>It must be noted though that even on economics Suharto had many failings. It is said that he did not always follow advice on liberalization of the economy, when it would have interfered with the business interests of his family and cronies,{{fact}} and these were probably major contributors to the 1998 monetary crisis and the economic problems which plagued Indonesia for many years afterwards.</ref> For a country at these stages of development, economic growth can make a life-or-death difference, in allowing public health expenditure, and private incomes to pay for medicine as well as proper food and shelter.

== Colonial rulers ==

The Dutch government instituted a number of programs{{fact}} - in particular the Ethical Policy{{w|Dutch Ethical Policy}} - which were intended to improve the welfare of the native Indonesians,<ref>though of course without stopping the exploitation and control by the Dutch.</ref> but these were plagued with problems and in many way made things worse and placed restrictions on the freedom of the colonial subjects.

== Aid and development ==

Bad [[international development]] projects are worse than no help at all. A bad [[project]] can break a [[local economy]], create a culture of [[dependency]], and damage a community until community members cannot even imagine attempting to [[empowerment|solve their own problems]]. This is what the [[Glossary_of_sustainability_terms#D|do no harm]] approach is all about. This the lesson you should learn from [[critics of aid]] such as [[James Shikwati]][http://alannashaikh.blogspot.com/2008/03/for-gods-sake-please-stop-aid.html]. He lumps all aid together, true, the good and the bad, but he’s right about how dangerous [[bad aid]] can be.

Those of us involved in [[international aid]] should take our role seriously. When your project takes criticism, you shut up and listen. You act like any other professional, and you examine the criticism to see if it is accurate.

Here’s what you don’t do. You don’t say, ever “Why would you be so mean when we are just trying to help?” If you find yourself about to say that, it means you have failed. Pack up your souvenirs and go home.

Lesson: There is no free pass for good intentions.

=== Effect on civil society ===

See [http://www.humanitarian.info/2010/02/01/how-international-ngos-killed-civil-society-in-developing-countries/ How international NGOs killed civil society in developing countries], Paul Currion, humanitarian.info, February 1st, 2010.

== Official development assistance ==

{{main|Official development assistance}}

Modern foreign aid programs (and to an extent [[welfare]] policies in wealthy nations) are often criticized for being ineffective ([[inappropriate solutions]] that end up unused) or even causing harm (creating a handout mentality, putting rich foreign aid workers in a [[poor]] context and causing envy, supporting corrupt authorities).<ref>A summary of some of the criticisms, with an aid workers own responses, is given at [http://www.amazon.com/review/R2DEVDJMYZZT4E/ref=cm_cr_rdp_perm Customer Review of ''The Lords of Poverty: The Power, Prestige, and Corruption of the International Aid Business'' by Graham Hancock] - review by Sithara Batcha, May 29, 2006, Amazon.com</ref>

== Antidotes ==

Preparation is essential, ensuring foreign consultants and [[aid and development workers]] have:
* [[Local knowledge]]
* [[Language]] skills,
* Humility. In particular, the recognition that locals will often know more than you, the official expert. (And that's okay - "knowing everything" isn't what you're here for.)
* A proper understanding of [[development principles]].
* Access to good [[Country Guides]] and other resources.

See '''[[Being an effective aid or development worker]]'''.

== Notes ==
<small><references/></small>

== External links ==
* [http://web.archive.org/web/20080613015750/http://blogs.cgdev.org/globalhealth/2008/04/the_road_to_health_p.php The Road to Health: Paved With Good Inventions], Ruth Levine, Global Health Policy blog, April 01, 2008. A satirical post from April Fools Day, suggesting a medication program for "those in the global health community to sustain their attention for up to two decades...a long-acting anti-hyperactivity medication that increases attention span (and) an anti-depressant activated when the individual is exposed to negative headlines or political setbacks." <!-- Original link broken: http://blogs.cgdev.org/globalhealth/2008/04/the_road_to_health_p.php so the link to the archive.org copy is given instead.-->

{{attrib bloodandmilk|url=http://bloodandmilk.org/?p=459}}

[[Category: Principles of development]]
[[Category:Project management]]