=Requirements for graduation from Ph.D at Queen's University=

*Completion of courses

*Sucessful completion of Part A comprehensive exams

*Completion and defence of Part B- Research Proposal

*Completion and defence of thesis

=Courses=

==Direct to Ph.D==
4 Courses

==Promoted from MaSc.==
7 Courses 
*At least one outside of the department, which can be a 400 level course
*All others must be masters level or above

=Part A comprehensive exams=
*Must be taken within the first 4 months of registration in Ph.D
*Focus on three major categories chosen by student. A list of possible topic areas can be found [http://me.queensu.ca/Graduate/PhD-Exam-Procedures.html#september here]
*Exams are oral and typically all three are taken in the same week, but never on the same day. 
*A failure of comprehensives means they must be re-taken at the next sitting of the comprehensives (another 4 months)
*A failure of the second round of comprehensives means removal from the program. 

=Part B research proposal=
*Must be submitted within 16 months of registration in Ph.D
*Outlines proposed research for the Ph.D, it must not exceed 40 pages. Outlines and writing hints are found [http://me.queensu.ca/Graduate/PhD-Exam-Procedures.html#september here]
*Defended to a committe determined by the supervisor, not neccesarily the same as the thesis defence committe
**One from students department
**One from external department
**One defence chair (Head of department or delegate)
**Any other members of supervisory committee
*Proposal must be submitted to committe at least two weeks before the defence
*The time of the defence is at the discretion of the supervisor and Supervisory Committee
*A Pass or referred decision will be made within an hour of the defence. If referred, the proposal must be defended again within three months

=Defence of Thesis=
*The thesis committee must consist of 
**Committee Chair-appointed by School of Graduate Studies
**Academic External to University
**External to Department
**Internal to Department
**Supervisors
*Thesis must be submitted 25 working days (typ. 5 weeks) prior to thesis defence
*Thesis can be submitted in hard copy or digitally, at the discretion of individual members of the thesis committee

=Ph.D awards and deadlines=
*NSERC & OGS- Typicical deadlines are October of the year before funding.
**eg. For funding in Sept. 2012, deadlines are in Oct.2011


[[Category: Queens Applied Sustainability Group]]
[[Category: Rob Andrews Thesis]]