'''Grameen Foundation Australia''' advocates for the use of [[microfinance]] in development [[aid]]; however this is part of a comprehensive solution, not a [[panacea]].

''Appropedian [[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] is actively involved with GFA.''

==Draft article==
''This section is a draft of a potential Wikipedia article, so is focused on [[Appropedia:Encyclopedic material|encyclopedic]] information. It will need citations e.g. of articles by independent writers.''

The '''Grameen Foundation Australia''' replicates the Grameen Bank model within [[South East Asia]]. It has a project in the Philippines, East Timor. 

<blockquote>
The Australian arm of the bank, the  Grameen Foundation Australia, oversees, funds and assists many projects in the region.

One such project, in the island province of Northern Samar, in the eastern Philippines, serves 10,000 [[poor]] and aims to reach 70,000 clients. They are borrowing money to buy tools and raw materials, lease land, pay for their children's education and repair their homes.<ref name = "SMH 2006">[http://www.smh.com.au/news/opinion/credit-the-poor-and-end-poverty/2006/12/10/1165685551913.html?page=fullpage#contentSwap1 Credit the poor and end poverty], Shan Ali (co-founder of the Grameen Foundation Australia], Sydney Morning Herald (Opinion), December 11, 2006,  </ref>
</blockquote>

<blockquote>
Grameen Australia is negotiating a large microcredit project in East Timor, where a small Grameen replication is already functioning. Plans are also under way to initiate a pilot project in Afghanistan. Initial research indicates that the security situation and other conditions in Afghanistan are right to put working capital in the hands of masses of self-employed women and men.<ref name = "SMH 2006"/>
</blockquote>

<blockquote>
"The Australian foundation works very closely with the Grameen Bank, we do very much the same kind of work but focusing on countries like Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and East Timor." (said Shan Ali).

...The Australian branch works in partnership with the Grameen Bank and the Grameen Trust, and supports a large number of development projects in developing nations around the world.

...Mr Ali said there was a core group of about 100 workers for the foundation in Australia with a membership of about 10,000 who help<ref>[http://news.ninemsn.com.au/article.aspx?id=152527 Aussies 'part of Nobel peace prize win'] ''AAP'', Oct 14 2006.</ref> promote the ideals of [[self-sufficiency]] for the poor and giving the needy a chance to realise their true potential.
</blockquote>

==Footnotes==

<small><references/></small>


==External links==
[http://www.grameen.org.au Official site]

{{stub}}

[[Category:Microfinance]]
[[Category:Australia]]
[[Category:Organizations]]