[http://growstuff.org/ '''Growstuff'''] is an open source, collaborative, community-oriented website and social network for food gardeners. It is a developing database of crops, harvests, planting advice, seed sources, and other useful gardening information that anyone can use for free for any purpose, under a [[CC-by-sa]] license. 

Growstuff is independent, ad-free and operated as a social business.

== Openness == 

The platform is [[open source]]. It is developed using Ruby on Rails, using an agile programming methodology which includes pair programming, both in-person and via web link-ups. 

The data collected is open data, available via API or csv files.

== Benchmarking Harvests ==

Benchmarking Harvests is a collaboration with Permaculture Melbourne to enable tracking of harvests through the Growstuff platform, collecting the data to reveal the potential of [[urban agriculture]] and insights about local food growing patterns such as planting and harvest times.
<ref>Benchmarking Harvests announcements:
* [http://blog.growstuff.org/2013/10/23/track-your-harvests-with-growstuff/ Track your harvests with Growstuff], October 23, 2013.
* [http://openista.net/harvests/ The Benchmarking Harvests project], Chris Watkins, October 24, 2013.
* [http://blog.growstuff.org/2013/09/19/harvest-benchmarking-a-collaboration-with-permaculture-melbourne/ Harvest Benchmarking: a collaboration with Permaculture Melbourne], September 19, 2013.</ref>

== Background == 

Growstuff is an initiative of Alex Bayley an ex-Google coder and a food grower, living in [[Melbourne]], [[Australia]]. 

== Footnotes ==
{{reflist}}


[[Category:Collaborations]]
[[Category:Food production]]
[[Category:Online communities]]
[[Category:Online collaborations]]