'''GUNDRUK'''
GUNDRUK (PICKLED LEAFY VEGETABLE) 
==Gundruk==
is particularly popular in Nepal. The annual production of  
==gundruk==
in Nepal is estimated at 2,000 tons and most of the production is carried out at the household level. 
==Gundruk==
is obtained from the fermentation of leafy vegetables in Nepal. It is served as a side dish with the main meal and is also used as an appetiser.  
==Gundruk==
is an important source of minerals particularly during the off-season when the diet consists of mostly starchy tubers and maize which tend to be low in minerals 
==Raw material preparation==
In the months of October and November, during the harvest of the first broad mustard, radish and cauliflower leaves, large quantities of leaves accumulate - much more than can be consumed fresh. These leaves are allowed to wilt for one or two days and then shredded with a knife or sickle. 
==Processing==
The shredded leaves are tightly packed in an earthenware pot and warm water (at about 30 
==o==
C) is added to cover all the leaves. The pot is then kept in a warm place. After five to seven days, a mild acidic taste indicates the end of fermentation and the  
== gundruk==
is removed and sun-dried. This process is similar to sauerkraut production except that no salt is added to the shredded leaves before the start of  
==gundruk==
fermentation. The ambient temperature at the time of fermentation is about 18 
==o==
C. 
==Pediococcus==
and  
== Lactobacillus==
species are the predominant micro-organisms during 
==gundruk==
fermentation. During fermentation, the pH drops slowly to a final value of 4.0 and the amount of acid (as lactic) increases to about 1% on the sixth day. It has been found that a disadvantage with the traditional process of  
== gundruk==
fermentation is the loss of 90% of the carotenoids, probably during sun-drying. Improved methods of drying might reduce the vitamin loss 
==Flow diagram==
Leafy vegetables 
==.==
Wilt  One to two days 
==.==
Shred 
== .==
Placed in earthen pot  The leaves need to tightly packed 
==.==
Cover the leaves  Cover the leaves with warm water and straw 
==.==
Ferment  The pot is kept warm in the sun and by a fire by night. 
==.==
Add warm water  To keep the pot warm 
==.==
Dried  Product dried on mats in the sun 
[[Category:ITDGbotpage]]