{{Lang|[[Cuci tangan dengan sabun|Bahasa Indonesia]]}}
'''Washing hands with soap''' is an important aspect of [[hygiene]] and [[public health]], preventing the spread of intestinal and respiratory illnesses.

== Disinfectants ==
Disinfectant soap is unnecessary in most cases.{{fact}} Some people have raised concerns that they have a negative impact, as they may cause bacteria to develop resistance,{{sp}} and lead to the health problems associated with being excessively hygienic.{{sp}}

== External links ==
* [http://www.snopes.com/medical/toxins/sanitizer.asp Hand Sanitizer Alcohol Poisoning] - snopes.com (''Status: True'')

== Appropriate Technology Handwash Station, Thailand ==
A simple hand wash station was created for a Sunday School in North East Thailand. Watch the video: http://www.ourmedia.org/node/265218

'''Description''': The watering can is suspended, with a cord attached to the nozzle. The cord is attached to one end of a stick (perhaps 50 cm or 20 inches long) on the ground, adjusted so that one end of the stick lies on the ground, and the other is raised slightly. The user steps on the stick, dropping the nozzle and enabling them to wash without touching anything with their hands. 

'''Suggestion''': perhaps redirecting the cord around a pole or pulley would make it easier for the user to keep their feet dry? --[[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] 02:26, 9 November 2006 (PST)

:''Note: If you are the person <!-- Anon editor, 202.156.13.1-->('''Limsumin'''?) who created this [[appropriate technology]] hand wash station and added the link above, thank you for this great idea! A warm welcome, and we hope you continue to contribute to Appropedia. Feel free to [[A:VP|drop a note]], and [[Special:Userlogin|register]] if you wish, so that people can contact you. --[[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] 02:26, 9 November 2006 (PST)''

A similar design is shown on Akvopedia at [http://www.akvo.org/wiki/index.php/Tippy_Tap Tippy Tap].

== Handwashing Sanitizer ==
Alcohol based hand sanitizers provide a low-cost and portable hygiene solution. There are [http://plainhomesteading.blogspot.com/2009/04/that-homemade-hand-sanitizer.html home-made recipes] on-line, however, these are not likely to have the greater than 60% level of alcohol [http://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/eid/vol12no03/05-0955.htm#1 recommended by the CDC]. The issue is well explained in [http://www.nytimes.com/2006/03/21/health/21cons.html?ex=1300597200&en=4c70920a31f666bf&ei=5090&partner=rssuserland&emc=rss this New York Times article]. There is potential for the development of a >60% home-made sanitizer recipe.

[[User:Steve.mccrosky|Steve.mccrosky]] 16:16, 2 May 2009 (UTC)

[[Category:Appropriate technology]]
[[Category:Flu pandemic]]
[[Category:Hygiene]]
[[Category:Projects]]
[[Category:Thailand]]
[[Category:Water]]