{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Materfetal.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
In the poorest countries, there are 500 million maternal deaths, 3.2 million still births, and 4 million neonatal deaths each year. To prevent mortality, early detection of preeclampsia, labor dystocia, and the presence of preterm labor are important for determining possible hazards. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
To detect problems with the mother and fetus during pregnancy, a system of reusable capacitive sensors and smart phones may be used to detect the presence of potential ailments. The device is a maternal-fetal monitoring system that aides medical personnel in decision-making. Once ailments are detected the patients may be sent to the proper facilities for treatment.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Neil Euliano of Convergent Engineering, Gainesville, FL, USA
*Manufacturer location: Florida, USA
 
==Funding Source==
This project received $100,000 in funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Grand Challenges Explorations Grant.

==References==
===Other internally generated reports===
Clary, B. (n.d.). Non-invasive, All-inclusive Maternal-Fetal Monitoring System. University of Florida Office of Tecnology Licensing. Retrieved February 5, 2013. PDF available [http://apps.research.ufl.edu/otl/pdf/marketing/11422.pdf here].

Convergent Engineering. (n.d.). National Institutes of Health Commercialization Assistance Program. Retrieved February 5, 2013. PDF available [http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir_showcase/Convergent.pdf here].

===Externally generated reports===
Round 5. (n.d.). Grand Challenges in Global Health. Retrieved February 5, 2013. Link available [http://www.grandchallenges.org/Explorations/Topics/InfantMaternalTechnologies/Pages/Round5.aspx here].

===IP and copyright===
U.S. Patent #8,275,451

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->