{{Template:Are You Ready? An In-depth Guide to Citizen Preparedness}}
There are actions that should be taken before, during, and after an event that are unique to each hazard. For example:

* <div>Seeking a safe shelter during a tornado.</div>
* <div>Reducing property loss from a hurricane.</div>
Information about the specific hazards and what to do for each is provided in Parts 2, 3, and 4. Study the material for those hazards that you identified in Section 1.1 as the ones that have happened or could happen. Share the hazard-specific information with family members and include pertinent material from these parts in your family disaster plan.

Some of the links on this page require a plug-in to view them. Links to the plug-ins are available below.
[http://www.fema.gov/goodbye/goodbye.jsp?url=http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/alternate.html
Last Modified: Wednesday, 11-Aug-2010 12:25:34 EDT
* [http://www.fema.gov/index.shtm Home]
* [http://www.fema.gov/about/contact/index.shtm Contact Us]
* [http://www.fema.gov/esp/index.shtm Español]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/privacy.shtm Privacy Policy]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/index.shtm Important Notices]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/accessibility.shtm Accessibility]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/plugins.shtm Download Plug-ins]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/foia.shtm FOIA]
* [http://www.fema.gov/oer/eeo_data_excel.shtm No FEAR Act Data]
* [http://www.usa.gov/ USA.gov]
* [http://www.dhs.gov/ DHS]
* The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government Web sites, companies or applications.
[http://www.fema.gov/
Federal Emergency Management Agency
U.S. Department of Homeland Security
500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472
External Affairs: (202) 646-4600
[http://www.disasterassistance.gov/
(800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-7585
[http://www.fema.gov/assistance/index.shtm 3 Step Guide for Assistance]
[http://www.ready.gov/
[[Category:Are You Ready? An In-depth Guide to Citizen Preparedness]]