{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Asia
|Image=Healthpoint.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Healthcare delivery in rural areas of India is often inefficient and ineffective.  Due to a lack of skilled medical professionals, effective diagnostic tools, and clean water in these remote areas, women, suffer from entirely preventable negative health outcomes. Thus, there is a need for innovative, quality primary maternal healthcare delivery in rural regions of India.

==Detailed description of the solution==
Healthpoint Services seeks to take advantage of its already established electronic healthcare system, based upon communication and information technology and social marketing to bring modern, high quality maternal healthcare to rural India. EHPs, or electronic health points, are village healthcare centers that provide a variety of services, most notably in the realm of telemedicine.  A combination of wireless broadband internet, video conferences, and electronic health records allow physicians working in the city to conduct consultations for rural patients visiting EHPs. Developers now want to introduce novel “mHealth” tools to these EHPs and bring critical services to mothers both at their clinics and their homes. These services are offered to customers at affordable prices, and the eHealthpoint system has been proven to be a sustainable, scalable social enterprise model that ensures health care for all. 

==Designed by==
*Designed by: This healthcare delivery scheme was developed by the for-profit social enterprise, Healthpoint Services Global, Inc. which is based in New York, New York and its wholly-owned Indian operating subsidiary, Healthpoint Services India Pvt. Ltd. 

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
It is currently being implemented in rural areas of Punjab, India, but will probably be extended to other areas of India, including Andhra Pradesh.

==Funding Source==
Healthpoint Services India Pvt. Ltd. is a startup for-profit social enterprise and has received investments from companies such as Fontus Water Ltd. (part of the EarthWater Group).  The group has also won grants from awards such as the Saving Lives at Birth: Grand Challenges for Development sponsored by USAID, the Government of Norway, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Tech Award 2011, and the Sankalp Award 2011.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Hamermesh, R. G., Sinha, M. R., and Vrolyk, E., (2011, October 18). eHealthpoint: Healthcare for Rural India Harvard Business School Entrepreneurial Management Case No. 812-020. Social Science Research Network. Retrieved October 15, 2012.  Link available [http://ssrn.com/abstract=2027445 here].

London, T., Hart, S.L.(2010). Next generation business strategies for the base of the pyramid: New approaches for building mutual value. New Jersey: FT Press. 

===Other internally generated reports===
Media Release. (n.d.). E Health Point. Retrieved October 15, 2012. Link available [http://ehealthpoint.com/?page_id=258 here].

Welcome to E Health Point. (n.d.). E Health Point. Retrieved October 15, 2012. Link available [http://ehealthpoint.com/ here].

===Externally generated reports===
Applying Low Cost Health and Information Technologies at the Community and Clinic Level in Rural India. (2011, May 16). Saving Lives at Birth: A Grand Challenge for Development. Retrieved October 15, 2012. Link available [http://www.savinglivesatbirth.net/summaries/91 here].

Ashoka-Incubated Social Enterprise, Healthpoint Services, and Procter & Gamble Join Forces to Transform Rural Healthcare. (2010, November 9). Ashoka Innovators for the Public. Retrieved October 14, 2012. Link available [http://www.ashoka.org/press/7644 here].

E Healthpoint. (n.d.) The Tech Awards: Technology Benefitting Humanity. Retrieved October 14, 2012. Link available [http://thetechawards.thetech.org/the-laureates/stories/1653 here].

E HealthPoint named laureate of global tech awards 2011. (2011, September 18). The Economic Times. Retrieved October 15, 2012. Link available [http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/news-by-industry/et-cetera/e-healthpoint-named-laureate-of-global-tech-awards-2011/articleshow/10026946.cms here].

Healthpoint Services Announces Innovative Learning Partnership With Procter & Gamble. (2010, November 9). PR Newswire United Business Media. Retrieved October 15, 2012. Link available [http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/healthpoint-services-announces-innovative-learning-partnership-with-procter--gamble-106953838.html here].

HealthPoint Services Wins Prestigious Sankalp Award. (2011, May 24). Ashoka India. Retrieved October 15, 2012. Link available [http://india.ashoka.org/healthpoint-services-wins-prestigious-sankalp-award here].

NASSCOM Social Innovation Honours-Winners 2012. (n.d.) NASSCOM Foundation. Retrieved
October 14, 2012. Link available [http://www.nasscomfoundation.org/nsih2013/nsih_winners_2012.html here].


<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->