{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, South America
|Image=this.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Anemia is one of the leading maternal health problems of the developing world.  Detection of the condition can prevent numerous other complications including hemorrhage, the leading cause of maternal deaths worldwide.  There is a need for simple, robust, and effective anemia diagnostic devices in low-resource settings. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
The HemoCue Hemobglobin system is a portable, battery-operated device that tests for anemia in pregnant women.  A disposable microcuvette is placed within the blood specimen, which collects the correct amount of blood via capillary action and automatically mixes the sample with reagents. Capillary, venous, or arterial blood samples can be used. The microcuvette is then placed into the portable analyzer, which displays results in about a minute.  The device can easily be operated with precision by an unskilled health worker. 

==Designed by==
*Designed by: HemoCue.
*Manufacturer location: This device is now distributed by a variety of companies across the world.

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
This device has been tested in Cameroon and Sudan among other places.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Adam, I., Ahmed, S., Mahmoud, M. H. Yassin, M.I. (2012, March 21).  Comparison of HemoCue® hemoglobin-meter and automated hematology analyzer in measurement of hemoglobin levels in pregnant women at Khartoum hospital, Sudan. Diagnostic Pathology.  7(30).  doi: 10.1186/1746-1596-7-30. Retrieved on January 1, 2013. Link available [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22436620 here].

Cohen, A. R.,  Seidl-Friedman, J.  (1988). HemoCue system for hemoglobin measurement. Evaluation in anemic and nonanemic children. American Journal of Clinical Pathology. 90(3), 302-305.  Retrieved January 1, 2013. Link available [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3414603 here].

===Other internally generated reports===
HemoCue Hemoglobin Systems. (n.d.). HemoCue: A Quest Diagnostics Company. Retrieved January 1, 2013. Link available [http://www.hemocue.com/international/Products/Hemoglobin-1155.html here].

===Externally generated reports===
Anemia and Pregnancy, Blood Test for Hemoglobin Level. (n.d.). Point-of-Care Hemoglobin Testing: A Vital Resource for Obstetricians/Gynecologists. Retrieved January 1, 2013. Link available [http://www.pointofcarebloodtests.com/anemia-and-pregnancy here].

HemoCue anemia test. (2012, September 17).  Maternova: Tools & ideas that save mothers and newborns. Retrieved January 1, 2013. Link available [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/hemocue-anemia-test here].

===IP and copyright===
Lindberg, Stellan; and Olesen, Tom 08224058 Cl. 382-133.

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->