{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=HIV/AIDS
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Image=Hemopurifier.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
The Hemopurifier™ has been developed to address the treatment of drug and vaccine-resistant pathogens, including HIV which causes AIDS.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Hemopurifier™ is a dialysis-type medical device designed to mimic the natural immune response of clearing infectious viruses and toxins before the occurrence of cell and organ infection. Human in-vitro blood studies have documented a rapid capture of circulating HIV and gp120, a toxic surface protein known to deplete the immune T-cells required to fight off infection. If commercialized, the Hemopurifier™ would represent the first medical device enlisted as a treatment for HIV/AIDS.

==Designed by==
*Design: Aethlon Medical, Inc. 
*Manufacturer Location: San Diego, California, USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Testing has been done in the United States since 2001. It is currently being tested in human clinical trials in India.

==Funding Source==
Private Funding

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Duffin, R.P. & Tullis, R.H. (2002). Mathematical models that predict the complete course of HIV infection and AIDS. J. Theor. Med, 4(3), 157-166.

Tullis, R.H., Ambrus, J.L. &  Joyce, J.A. (2001). Affinity Hemodialysis as a Treatment for AIDS. American Clinical Laboratories, Oct/Nov, 22-23.

Tullis, R.H., Duffin, R.P., Zech, M. & Ambrus, J.L. (2001). Affinity Hemodialysis for Antiviral Therapy. I. Removal of HIV-1 from Cell Culture Supernatants, Plasma and Blood. Therapeutic Apheresis, 6 (3), 213-220.	

Tullis, R.H., Scammura, D.O. & Ambrus, J.L. (2002). Affinity Hemodialysis for Antiviral Therapy with Specific Application to HIV. J. Theor Med, 3(2002), 157-166.

Tullis, R.H., Duffin, R.P., Zech, M. & Ambrus, J.L. (2003). Affinity hemodialysis for antiviral therapy. II. Removal of HIV-1 viral proteins from cell culture supernatants and whole blood. Blood Purification, 21(1), 58-64.

===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===
An investigational device exemption (IDE) to initiate clinical studies in the United States is pending with the Food and Drug Administration.