Substitute for [[Sanitation|pit latrines, septic systems or conventional sewage handling]] with:

* area-appropriate [[composting toilet]] design

Financial model:

Possibly as cheap as $20 per household in warm areas, assuming shared toilet banks. Practical, realistic designs have not undergone the "value engineering" necessary for this application yet, so are still too costly, although clearly a cheap, basic, functional unit for any given climate could be created.

Water System

==Priorities==
*[[public health]] is the overwhelming priority. 
*low cost is essential - if it's not cheap, it won't be used as much and won't achieve as much. 
*low ecological impact is very desirable if it doesn't compromise public health. 
*suitable for various [[culture|cultural]] practices. Target users may be accustomed to using water to cleanse (but can most often cope with small amounts of water), or other [[anal cleansing]]{{w|anal cleansing}} methods, so the device should ideally tolerate sticks, rocks, paper, or whatever else is likely to be thrown in. 

==Options==
* [[Ventilated Improved Pit Latrine (Practical Action Technical Brief)]] A simple design for a toilet that can be dug anywhere. Fill the pit with refuse and plant a tree when you are finished!
*[[Composting toilet]]
*[[Biogas]] toilet, too large scale for the specs; for longer term settlement (due to capital cost, time for construction); relatively unproven. (E.g. [http://www.afrigadget.com/2007/03/01/bio-latrines-in-kenyan-slums/ Bio Latrines in Kenyan Slums].) 
*Non-composting, non-biogas toilets
**Emphasis on public health (rather than [[sustainability]] or treating the waste as a resource).
**e.g. the [[BiPu]]{{w|BiPu}}
***Cost? [[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] to find out.
***What's the status of the solid material afterwards? Can be composted?
***Proven in the field, including Aceh.{{fact}}
*Ultra-cheap systems, based on the [[Kamal Kar]]'s work. Any applicable to this situation? [[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] to find out.
*What about small community based [[Constructed wetlands]]?
*[[How_to_make_and_use_a_sawdust_toilet|Sawdust bucket toilet]], after Joseph Jenkins' [http://www.jenkinspublishing.com/humanure.html "Humanure Handbook"] (fundamental reference on this topic, free to [http://humanurehandbook.com/contents.html download]) -- hygienic, private, cheap, hard to screw up, makes great compost... why aren't you using one?

[[Category:Hexayurt project]]
[[Category:Toilet designs]]

[[Category:Composting_toilets]]