== Where does "Holistic ICT" fit in? ==
Information and Communications Technologies have the potential to increase the level of information that communities have to make more informed decisions about development.

A bottom-up integrated approach to [[sustainable development]] mandates a “[http://www.opendigitalvillage.net/index.php?title=Holistic_ICT Holistic ICT for EcoLiving] approach” that not only involves education but monitoring, networking, information analysis and database access for research. 

In relation to integrated agricultural systems, specifically what is needed is an effective process of coordinating all the components needed to promote the maximum replication of [[sustainable technologies]] and approaches that work particularly well. ICT services help in developing environmental scans of surrounding regions (consider also the idea of a ecological framework for governance by redefining political boundaries along the [[bioregions]]) such as soil inventory analysis and life cycle modeling to balance sustainability with financial viability. 

An [[Integrated Farming]] System for example would be certified for carbon credits, by using a internet link up and sensors to gather real time information at the facility to determine and compare the offsets of both production and construction activities and the resulting greenhouse emissions and this would be subtracted from the estimated amount of carbon captured by the system. Effective and easy to use information and communication technologies will be vital to developing more holistic measuring and modeling tools that include the collection of site data, GIS, and lifecycle analysis model that includes a training process that is accessible and understandable by the grassroots. 

In relation to a [[oneVillage Initiative]] approach, over time, we can see the need for various community ICT and appropriate technology services that threads together every aspect of the built environment such as green architecture, sustainable agriculture, and industrial ecology (design of productive systems) and [[biomimickry]] (design of products).

[[Category:Green living]]
[[Category:Information technology]]