{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality, 
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Asia
|Image=Homephototherapy.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Jaundice in newborns is an extremely common condition that can result in kernicterus (brain damage) or even death without medical treatment. Resource-limited areas often lack the equipment necessary to treat this condition with phototherapy. In addition, phototherapy systems are generally large so they cannot be transported, causing newborns to extend their stay in hospitals.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The home phototherapy unit is a small, portable device that can treat jaundice in newborns at home.  The light waves transform toxic bilirubin in the newborn’s blood into a safer product.  This unit has a timer, cooling system, an alarm, four folding legs. It is transportable and can be easily used by any caregiver.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Ehsan Dargazy
*Manufacturer: Tosan Co.
*Manufacturer location: Iran

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Iran

==References==

===Other internally generated reports===
Tosan Co. (2012). Home Phototherapy 027. Retrieved November 29, 2013 from [http://www.tosanco.com/en/Products/Item/Home-Phototherapy-027 here].

===Externally generated reports===
Design to Improve Life. Home Phototherapy. Retrieved November 29, 2013 from [http://designtoimprovelife.dk/home-phototherapy/ here].

Maternova. (January 11, 2013). Home Phototherapy Unit. Retrieved November 29, 2013 from [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/home-phototherapy-unit here].

===IP and copyright===
Copyright © 2012 Tosan Co.

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->