The '''How To Live Wiki''' was started by Vinay Gupta in October 2006, and merged into [[Appropedia]] in March 2007.

The work of Gupta and others continues on the [[Hexayurt Project]] and related projects, and on the concepts originally covered on the How To Live Wiki. Merging into Appropedia simply allowed greater collaboration with like-minded people, greater exposure, and less work maintaining a site.

To view pages that were originally a part of the How To Live Wiki, see [[:Category:Howtolive]]. The original site was at http://howtolivewiki.com/

The original "About" page follows:

----

:The How To Live Wiki extends the Wikipedia movement to include three kinds of knowledge not included in Wikipedia:

:* [[:Category:Technology|Sustainable Development and Disaster Relief How Tos]]
:* [[:Category:Best Practice|Environmental Best Practices]]
:* [[:Category:Decision Support|Personal Decision Support Tools]]:

:It is hosted by [[User:Vinay Gupta|Vinay Gupta]], and all IP is [http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html GNU FDL], for compatibility with [http://wikipedia.org/ Wikipedia].

:The How To Live Wiki uses [[Structural Ontology|categories]] in a manner much like tags are used in systems like [http://flickr.com/ Flickr] to allow structured browsing through the knowledge base, and to provide clear and consistent conceptual metadata about the status of an item in the database.

:One critical conceptual difference between Wikipedia and the How To Live Wiki is the concept of [[Structural Ontology#Development Status|Development Status]]. DS simply tags an item as either Speculative, Experimental or Proven, indicating how mature the knowledge about the item is. This makes it possible to discuss material which is not yet fact, and to encourage the testing of promising ideas, while effectively separating the genuinely mature ideas from the rest.

:I hope that in the long run, the project may become a resource for field workers to access a knowledge base which is both relevant and freely available. One approach to this is documented in the [[Provisional Research Workflow]].

:The project is in its very early stages. I am currently in the process of writing the [[How To Add Content]] guide.

:Please write to me at hexayurt@gmail.com if you would like to participate, or just find out more.

:--[[User:Vinay Gupta|Vinay Gupta]] 13:38, 8 October 2006 (PDT)

[[Category:Howtolive]]
[[Category:Wikis for sustainability]]
[[Category:Wikis for social change]]
[[Category:Wikis for international development]]