== Steps ==
# Safety first.
# Determine your energy use - you can do this by collecting a year's worth of electric bills and adding up the energy (measured in  kilo watt hours kW-hrs) used. Another way to do this is to do a [[plug load analysis]] of all of your electric devices.
# Determine the solar insolation in your region and more specifically location of the pv panel to determine kW-hrs/kW installed of PV. This is done with your latitude or distance from the equator.  
# Divide your energy use by the available solar insolation found from step 3 to get your number of maximum installed Watts.
# Design a pv system that meets your electrical power needs given the parameters of the available insolation. Keep in mind that solar insolation varies seasonally and daily.

== Example ==
# Lets say you are average. The average annual electricity use per household is 10,654 kW-hrs/year (Energy Information Administration, 2005).
# From the solar resource map go [https://glfc.cfsnet.nfis.org/mapserver/pv/index_e.php here] or [http://www.greenpowerlabs.com/maps4.html here]. If we assume you live in Kingston you can expect at least 1200 kW-hrs/kW (more if you are using thin film PV).
# 10,654/1200 = 8.9 kW. This is actually a pretty big system -- which shows you just how wasteful most people are with energy.

== Warnings ==
Before you consider installing any type of [[photovoltaic]] you should first work to optimize your home's energy efficiency.

== Things You will Need ==
For a plug load analysis you will need a watt meter.

== Related How-Tos ==
== Sources and Citations ==
Energy Information Administration (EIA). 2005. U.S.  Household Electricity Report. Release date: July 14, 2005 at [http://www.eia.doe.gov/emeu/reps/enduse/er01_us.html]

[[Category:Photovoltaics]]
[[Category:Energy]]