[http://www.heavypetal.ca/uploads/archived/seedballs3.jpg Image - Seedballs: microcosms of the living world].

[http://www.bokashiman.com/ Al "Bokashiman"] from a [http://commgardens.meetup.com/56/ guerilla gardening group] led a [[seedball]]-making workshop. It is satisfying to get your hands muddy and spend a couple hours in a zen-like trance rolling seedballs - it's highly recommended!

== Here’s the recipe ==

* 5 parts dry red clay<ref>Dry red clay: Yes, this is the stuff that potters use. Commonly it comes pre-mixed, which you don’t want. You want the dry powder so it can be easily mixed. I’ve tried using grey clay from a riverbank – it doesn’t work so well. In Greater Vancouver there is something called Red Art Clay which is available at Greenbarn Potters Supply Ltd., 9548 – 192nd Street in Surrey (604-888-3411). Try asking at your local art supply store.</ref>
* 3 parts dry organic compost
* 1 part seed<ref>Seeds: Workshop organizer Al provided crimson clover, white dutch clover and wild flower seeds, while the rest of the participants donated appropriate seeds – I put in California poppy, nasturtium and cilantro. Al also suggested using the edible, perennial and drought-tolerant plants listed at [http://www.pfaf.org/leaflets/top20.php Plants for a Future].</ref>
* 1 – 2 parts water

We used a 16oz. plastic cup as a measure, which made enough for approximately 300 seedballs. After mixing together all the dry ingredients, we added enough water to form a mix that held together without crumbling but wasn’t so wet that it wouldn’t roll into balls. Pinching off small bits of the lovely mud, we rolled penny-sized balls and set them in trays. They will sit on the windowsill for three or four days until completely dry.

[http://www.heavypetal.ca/uploads/archived/seedball%20making.jpg Image - Here we are, rolling away].

[http://www.heavypetal.ca/uploads/archived/seedballs.jpg Image - One of these kids is doing their own thing].

== Ideas to try ==

=== Tea bag seed ball ===

A seed (e.g. sunflower seed) in between two tea bags, tied together with natural (compostable) twine. A great way to reuse old tea bags, especially for those who can't get clay easily. ''Does this work? The tea might hold water for a shorter time than clay, so is it more suitable to times and places with more soil moisture and/or rain and/or shade?''{{sp}}

=== Floating seed bomb ===

This is more of an art piece than practical seed delivery method.

A new take on the [http://www.heavypetal.ca/archives/2007/03/a_brief_history_of_the_seed_ba.html seed bomb] is a biodegradable helium balloon painted with the classically kitschy garden gnome. The work of Dutch [http://www.studiotx.nl/TempGartenAM.html Studio TX], the seed-filled balloons deflate after a day, landing on the sod attached to the bottom of each balloon.

"Each balloon is made of PLA plastic and painted with 100% water-based chalk. The balloons take 4-6 months to decompose and leave a burst of color in their wake."

''Reported in [http://www.inhabitat.com/2008/07/12/green-graffiti-flower-bomb-balloons/ Inhabitat].''

==Notes==
<small><references/></small>

== External links ==
* [http://web.archive.org/web/20040606120719/www.seedballs.com/3seedpa.html Seed Balls I. What They Are And How To Make Them] - archived from the defunct seedballs.com site.
* [http://www.pathtofreedom.com/pathproject/gardening/seedballs.shtml Path to Freedom ]
* [http://www.context.org/ICLIB/IC14/Fukuoka.htm Masanobu Fukuoka]

{{attrib heavypetal|url=http://heavypetal.ca/archives/2007/03/how-to-make-seedballs/}}

[[Category:Urban agriculture]]
[[Category:Seeds]]
[[Category:Sowing]]
[[Category:How tos]]