'''''
== smart website is a better marketing tool ==

How smart brand website is a better marketing tool?

In the present digital age where websites have become the prime marketing tool for enterprises to gain influence and audience, giant companies are branching out a good marketing budget to boost their online reputation and making their presence count on web. Indeed, it is unavoidable for brands to have a brand website that brings positive word of mouth on web, it has been seen that people are more convinced with the brand if it has a detailed and interactive website communicating the message of the brand to its global audience.  So, it’s immoral if we do not tag smart brand websites as a good marketing tool to ride the digital wave and gain countless followers. 

Undoubtedly, a smart brand website retains a powerful impact on purchase intent and the consequences can be incredible if the website has a stimulating approach to trigger the purchase intent of the visitors or consumers. Research says, on an average purchase intent rises 5% after site exposure. That’s true to an extent for a large number of retail and luxury brands where purchase intent is measured on site exit, with a control, where purchase intent is collected on entry, among first-time visitors. 

Further, the better the website browsing experience, the better purchase intent for brands. A great man has rightly said that “Marketing is everything”, and nowadays if you exclude a conceptual web presence from the big picture then you cannot expect to be a super brand. In the checklist, having extended a successful brand web presence is secured a top position for diverse industries. While this average boost in purchase intent is exciting, we have seen it as high as 60% – or at the low point, even negative, when the website does not deliver the expected quality browsing experience.

If you’re executing a high-end marketing plan along with an impressive website for the digital launch of your brand then the success and popularity would come hand in hand. It even helps you developing a positive brand image at present. This is clearly the beginning of a powerful new trend. Five years on, we may look back at this editorial and realize that smart brand websites have powerful possibilities to begin customer relationships and support through their websites, which, as we have seen, has strong marketing appeal. 

This has further effects for the future of web, as consumers will only increase their traffic to brand websites on the basis of how well a website solves its unique selling purpose in a subtle yet reliable manner. Credibility factor can be generated from a website if the right kind of website elements and content is implemented in a right way. Moreover, it helps in marketing the products or services of your brand through a head-turning website that has reliability factor for consumers’ satisfaction. 

== Notes and references ==
{{reflist}}

== See also ==

* [[http://goarticles.com/article/How-Smart-Brand-Website-Is-a-Better-Marketing-Tool/7918567/ Better Marketing Tool]]
* [[]]
* [[]]

== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:]]
* []

== External links ==

* [http://www.eyebridge.in/ http://www.eyebridge.in/] 


{{stub}}

[[Category:]]
[[Category:]]