It said that a picture speaks a thousand words, but what if that picture was something not yet made, and instead of 2D, was in 3D? One might say that that fictional number of words goes up dramatically. This is the reason why 3D renderings have grown increasingly popular.
An Artist can translate a 3D design from a 2D one with a 3D modeling program. After a 2D design is produced, an artist can use the 3D modeling program's tools to project the design into 3D space. 
This process however requires that you decide on what additional designs to use because there are many ways to convert 2D to 3D and also different ways to produce various effects.
Examples of 3D modelling programs include;

* AutoCAD
* Inventor
* sketch UP
* Solid desk
* Maya
* ZBrush
* blender

Here you will get to learn different steps through how to convert a 2D to 3D using Bitmaps
First, what are bitmaps?
Bitmaps are defined as a regular rectangular mesh of cubes called pixels, each pixel containing a colour value. They are characterized by only two parameters, the number of pixels and the information content or color depth per pixel. There are other qualities that are applied to bitmaps but they are derivations of the two fundamental parameters which are horizontal and vertical.

Each pixel in a bitmap contains some specific information, usually interpreted as colour information. The content is always the same for all the pixels in a particular bitmap. The amount of colour information could be whatever then application requires but there are some standards. The main ones are,
1 bit (black and white)
8 bit greys
24 bit RGB

Step 1
Get or make a 2D graphic file for example JPEG, from the 2D design you want to render as a 3D.
Step 2
Go ahead and open the 3D modeling program that you choose, then click its tool for opening the texture editor. This step will apply 2D images onto 3D surfaces.
Step 3
Click the texture editor's "bitmap" button. Navigate to and open the 2D image from step 1.
Step 4
Click the Create button on the menu and then click any of the primitives displayed on the menu such as the sphere, cone, cylinder or a box. Click and drag in the main drawing window to grow the primitive to any size.
Step 5
In the texture editor, click on the 2D image you loaded in step 3. Drag the image
Onto the primitive you made in step 4. The design will now be displayed on the Primitive.
On the toolbar click the "Render" function to produce a shaded image of the 3D design.
Conclusion
It is advisable that you look for the modeling program that best works for you. It is evident that 3D have more advantages compared to 2D but that does not mean the latter design has lost its value. 

== External links ==

* [https://www.archmania.com/ 3d Rendering] 


{{stub}}

[[Architectural Rendering]]
[[3d Rendering]]