{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Tuberculosis, Respiratory 
|Classification=Diagnosis, Treatment
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=HPN.png
}}
==Problem being addressed==
In remote areas and resource-limited settings, clinics may lack expensive, electric nebulizers to induce sputum samples for tuberculosis diagnosis and respiratory treatments. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
We have developed two versions of the Human Powered Nebulizer.  One is hand-cranked; the other is pedaled like a bicycle. The health care provider operates the HPN while the patient induces a sputum sample or receives treatment. This technology is inexpensive and portable, putting respiratory treatment and diagnostics in the hands of even the most remote clinics.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: The Human Powered Nebulizer Project at Marquette University.  Official website: [http://www.hpnproject.org/ Human Powered Nebulizer Project] (see http://www.hpnproject.org). [If the link does not open, please cut and paste this website into your browser]

*Manufacturing: Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
The first clinical trial was conducted in South African in 2010, in conjunction with the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and the Desmond Tutu HIV Centre.  Additional clinical and field trials are currently being conducted in Malawi and El Salvador.
 
==Funding Source==
Funding provided by the Marquette University College of Engineering Opus Fund, the Northwestern University Alumnae Foundation, and the National Collegiate Inventors and Innovators Alliance (a philanthropic competition).  Generous in-kind support has been provided by Particle Technology Labs, the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, the Desmond Tutu HIV Centre, Cape Town, South Africa
and the Milwaukee Institute of Art and Design.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Kranzer K, Olson L, van Shaik N, et al. (2011.) Quality of induced sputum using a human-powered nebuliser in a mobile human immunodeficiency virus testing service in South Africa. [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21740671 Int J Tuberc Lung Dis] 15(8):1078-81.

===Other internally generated reports===
Human Powered Nebulizer Project. (2010.) Human Powered Nebulizer Project NCIIA pitch. Youtube available [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L9Q6_xjapzU here].

Human Powered Nebulizer Project. (2010.) The HPN in Masiphumelele, South Africa. Youtube available [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZIi1zO5E2Jw here].

===Externally generated reports===
National Collegiate Inventor & Innovator Alliance. (2010.) Top 3 March Madness for the Mind videos announced. Link available [http://nciia.org/node/1141 here].