===SOLAR PANELS===
*'''Description:''' Three older panels and three newer panels 
*'''Justification:''' Sun generates energy that is stored in batteries for later use of household appliances.
*'''Issues:''' Currently the panels are under repair. With certain weather conditions such as dense fog, the panels are unable to generate energy.
*'''Location:''' Eye st. in sunset neighborhood
*'''Notes:''' 

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:solar_panels_eye_st.jpg|
}}

===SOLAR PANEL ARRAY===
*'''Description:''' This is a large solar panel arrary that powers the McBane and Trush office building.  The hot water solar collectors on the right are used inside for the radiant floor heating system.
*'''Justification:''' This is appropriate because they are getting clean energy and hot water from the sun everyday
*'''Issues:''' The system is very nice but probably expensive
*'''Location:''' 8th and J street
*'''Notes:''' 

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:NKsolarIMG.jpg|
}}

===Photovoltaic Panels===
*'''Description:''' PV panels used to generate electricity from the sun.
*'''Justification:''' Letting nature do the work.
*'''Issues:''' Very expensive intial cost.
*'''Location:''' J St. Arcata, CA
*'''Notes:''' 

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:PV System.jpg|
}}

===12V Battery charged by PV panel===
*'''Description:''' A 12V deep cycle battery is charged during the day by a small 4”x6” PV panel which is wired to charge any 12V devices during the day or at night. Cell phones, battery chargers, and any other device that can be plugged into a cigarette lighter in a car. 
*'''Justification:''' I consider this [[appropriate technology]] because this system can be used independently from the grid and helps others understand how [[solar power]] can work by looking at this basic display.
*'''Issues:''' It takes a long time for the 12V battery to charge because the solar panel is so small. The battery is also not environmentally friendly.
*'''Location:''' It is located in Bayside CA

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:photo_86.jpg|
}}

[[Category:AT Photos]]
[[Category:Humboldt AT gallery]]
[[Category:Photovoltaics]]