===Sunset Two Story Greenhouse===
*'''Description:''' This two story greenhouse is attached to the south side of a two story house.  The windows of the bottom story are glass  while the walls of the top story are a slightly more crude white translucent tarpaulin material.  The floor of the 2nd story/roof of the bottom story is a wood deck which allows heated air to pass up to the 2nd story.  Since the top story is an add on, the bedroom windows open to the greenhouse.
*'''Justification:''' This idea of a greenhouse attached to the side of a house uses the sun's energy to not  only heat the greenhouse itself, but also heat the house itself.  This heat can be utilized in a number of ways. Here are a few ways the occupants of this house take advantage of the warm air:  grow warm weather plants, can be a good area to dry clothes, heat the house through the bedroom windows, dry firewood, good place to relax and warm the body, and also just a dry storage space.  The glass in the lower story was recycled glass that was salvaged from a construction site.
*'''Issues:''' The plastic walls of the top story have very little insulation and do not seal around the edges so a considerable amount of heat is lost.  The latch on the door is also an issue in that if it is not secured properly the wind, or even a breeze can open it causing rapid heat loss in the greenhouse.
*'''Location:''' This house is located in Sunset in Arcata California.

{{Gallery
|width=290
|height=218
|lines=0
|Image:the_greenhouse.jpeg|
|Image:the_bottom_story.jpeg|
|Image:sunset_top_story.jpeg|
}}

===OUTDOOR SPACE AND GREENHOUSE===
*'''Description:''' Outdoor space and greenhouse. This structure is using glass around a deck space, to keep the space warm and blocked from wind. There is also a [http://www.roughbros.com/commercial-greenhouses/systems/growing-system/ growing greenhouse] along the back.
*'''Justification:''' This house is right near the ocean, the creation of this outside space took into account the local weather and environment and built a space that would be usable all the time. The space is heated by creatively catching and trapping the heat of the sun while blocking the wind. The back growing space allows the house to grow local year round vegetables and herbs. This space can be considered an [[appropriate technology]], because it is simple, efficient and takes advantage of solar income. The use of solar energy to heat their outside space and grow food is environmentally conscience and sustainable. 
*'''Issues:''' I am not sure if the materials were local or if the structure was built from sustainable products.
*'''Location:''' Loleta, Humboldt County, CA
*'''Notes:''' I drove by this house on the way to the beach and thought the idea was very creative! 

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:Outsidespace1.jpg|
|Image:outside_space2.jpg|
}}

===Instructions===
To add a new AT implementation to this resource, Copy and paste the following into notepad. Make the appropriate edits (replace allcap text) and then paste above the Instructions line in the edit window. 
{{template:Parras AT}}

{{Solar navbox}}

[[Category:AT Photos]]
[[Category:Humboldt AT gallery]]
[[Category:Greenhouses]]