{{explain redlinks}}

We could use the term '''inappropriate technology''' to describe certain damaging technologies. The opposite of [[appropriate technology]], suffering from a drastic lack of [[appropriateness]].

While the use of any technology can be inappropriate, depending on [[context]], certain technologies are especially prone to this. At the risk of being subjective, here are some examples:

* Complex machinery in remote locations. Easy maintenance is critically important when expert service is not available locally.

* The [[PlayPump]] - especially where a simple and effective [[handpump]] has been removed to install it, or where  the primary need is for more pumps (making lower cost solutions more appropriate), or where there are not a large number of children interested in playing on it for extended periods (resulting in harder work for the users, compared to a handpump or [[treadle pump]]).

* '''The Electric Chair'''{{w|The_Electric_Chair}}: used for death rather than solving a problem. (Compare technologies to improve [[safety]] and reduce conflict and stress, and [[urban design for crime reduction]].

*'''Saturday Night Specials'''{{w|Saturday_night_special}}

*'''Tazers'''{{w|Tazer}}: These provide a way for law enforcement to use non-lethal force, in situations where they might otherwise have used guns. Unfortunately, like any weapon, they are open to abuse. A technology to make them more accountable could reduce this (e.g. more open access to data on the usage of the devices).

*'''Supermax Prisons{{w|Supermax}}

*'''Nuclear Power'''{{w|Nuclear_power}}

*'''Nuclear Powered Interplanetary Space Probes'''{{w|Cassini%E2%80%93Huygens}}{{w|Galileo_%28spacecraft%29}} [http://www.enterprisemission.com/NukingJupiter.html]

*'''HAARP'''{{w|Haarp}} [http://www.abovetopsecret.com/forum/thread672616/pg1]

*'''Nuclear Weapons'''{{w|Nuclear_weapon}}

*'''Biological Weapons'''{{w|Biological_weapons}}

*'''Chemical Weapons'''{{w|Chemical_Weapons}}

*'''Land Mines'''{{w|Landmines}}

*'''White Phosphorus Weapons'''{{w|White_phosphorus_weapons}}

*'''Depleted Uranium'''{{w|Depleted_Uranium}}

*'''Supernanothermate'''{{w|Nano-thermite}}

*'''Strip Mining'''{{w|Strip_mining#Strip_mining}}

*'''Mountaintop Removal Mining'''{{w|Mountaintop_removal_mining}}

*'''Off Shore Oil Drilling'''{{w|Off_shore_oil_drilling}}

*'''Hydraulic Fracturing'''{{w|Hydraulic_fracturing}}

*'''Whaling'''{{w|Whaling}}

*'''Gasoline '''{{w|Gasoline}}

*'''Genetic Engineering'''{{w|Genetic_Engineering}}

*'''Factory Farms'''{{w|Factory_farms}}

*'''Fresh Water Dams'''{{w|Dams}}

*'''Drag Net Fishing''' []

*'''Clear Cutting'''{{w|Clear_cutting}}

*'''Biomass Energy Generating Incinerators''' []

*'''Municipal Waste Incinerators'''{{w|Edmonton_Incinerator}}

*'''Pesticides'''{{w|Pesticides}}

*'''Herbicides'''{{w|Herbicides}}

*'''Inhumane Animal Traps''' []

*'''Petro-Chemical Fertilizers''' []

*'''Diesel Fuel'''{{w|Diesel_fuel}}

*'''Petro-Chemical Based Plastics''' []

*'''Products Claiming TO Be Disposable'''{{w|Disposable}}

*'''The Incandescent Light Bulb'''{{w|Incandescent_light_bulb}}

*'''Chlorofluorocarbons'''{{w|Chlorofluorocarbon}}

{{stub}}

[[Category:Appropriate technology]]