{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality,
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Dehydration is a leading cause of infant mortality and morbidity worldwide. Physical examinations are the most common method of determining the extent of dehydration, but can be subjective. Laboratory tests such as BUN (blood urea nitrogen) and bicarbonate levels are more objective measures of hydration, but require blood draws and can miss abnormalities that are not extreme. Healthcare providers in low-resource areas may not have the laboratory resources to perform BUN or bicarbonate level tests. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
The device includes a hand-held probe with an ultrasonic transmitter and receiver. The user can adjust the distance between the transducers, each of which is mounted on a force sensor so that skin contact pressure is recorded and communicated to the user via an LED. The velocity of ultrasound waves through the tissue between the transducers is used to calculate the hydration status of the patient. 

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Armen P. Sarvazyan 
*Manufacturer (if different): Artann Laboratories
*Manufacturer location: Austin, TX, USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
 
==Funding Source==
Recipient of Grand Challenges in Global Health grant,
Artann Labs.
==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===

===Other internally generated reports===
"Body Hydration Monitor." Artann Laboratories, n.d. Web. Retrieved December 5, 2013 from [http://www.artannlabs.com/body-hydration.html here.]

Tatarinov, A., Sarvazyan, N., Gardovska D., Eihvalde L., and Kreicberga, I. (2013). "Pilot clinical study of novel ultrasonic hydration monitor for infants." IFMBE Proceedings 38, pp. 39–42. 2013.  International Symposium on Biomedical Engineering and Medical Physics. Web. Retrieved December 1, 2013 from [http://link.springer.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/book/10.1007%2F978-3-642-34197-7 here.]

===Externally generated reports===
"New Technology for Assessment of Hydration Status of Newborn." Grand Challenges Explorations Grants. Grand Challenges in Global Health, n.d. Retrieved December 5, 2013 from [http://www.grandchallenges.org/explorations/Pages/grantsawarded.aspx here].

===IP and copyright===
Sarvazyan AP: Infant hydration monitor. USA Pat 7,291,109 2007 Nov 6.
Sarvazyan AP: Ultrasonic water content monitor and methods for monitoring tissue hydration. USA Pat 7,033,321 2006 Apr 25.

===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->