{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa
|Image=InfantAIR.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Respiratory distress from acute respiratory infection is one of the leading causes of infant and child death in the developing world. Oxygen therapy is an effective treatment, but the expensive cost often prohibits treatment in resource-limited settings.

==Detailed description of the solution==
A simple, rugged bubbling continuous positive airway pressure (bCPAP) provides pressurized oxygen therapy to children suffering respiratory distress at a fraction of the cost of other commercial bCPAP devices. InfantAIR reduces severe adverse consequences of respiratory infection and allows for inexpensive and infrequent maintenance.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: This device was developed at Rice University's Beyond Traditional Borders program. Development partners include 3rd Stone Design, Oshman Engineering Design Kitchen, Baylor College of Medicine, Texas Children's Hospital and the University of Malawi's Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital. More information from the inventors can be found [http://www.infant-air.com/main/about.html here].
*Manufacturer location: Since this device is made with consumer-grade parts, it is able to be manufactured worldwide.

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
infantAIR was used at Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital in Blantyre, Malawi from October 2010 through April 2011. Plans are underway to conduct clinical trials in Rwandan hospitals.

==Funding Source==
$18,000 was awarded in September 2010 by the National Collegiate Inventors and Innovators Alliance (NCIIA). 
$13,000 was awarded at the Rice University Business Competition. 
The Saving Lives at Births Grand Challenge seed grant was awarded in July 2011.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
* Lang HJ, Jeffries O, Ward J et al. (2011.) Use of bubble CPAP (bCPAP) in Malawi. Paediatriac Intensive Care Society Annual Meeting. Cambridge, UK: 2011.

===Other internally generated reports===
Boyd J. (2011.) Rice's low-cost 'infantAIR' device wins big in international contest. Link available [http://www.media.rice.edu/media/NewsBot.asp?MODE=VIEW&ID=16015 here].

Rice Alliance for Technology and Entrepreneurship. (2011.) Rice University Business Plan Competition awards $1 million in cash and prizes. Link available [http://www.alliance.rice.edu/alliance/NewsBot.asp?MODE=VIEW&ID=114 here].

===Externally generated reports===
Saving Lives at Birth. (2011.) Low-cost respiratory support: reducing infant death in Malawi.  Link available [http://www.savinglivesatbirth.net/summaries/41 here].