For more than three decades, Innovative Energy (I.E.) has been a leader in delivering high-performance reflective insulation products to a growing market of energy-conserving industries. I.E.’s extensive array of insulation materials meets the requirements of a wide range of applications, such as building products, thermal protective packaging, original equipment manufacturer (OEM) materials and do-it-yourself solutions. 

'''Expert Team'''
----

Innovative Energy Inc. is second to none in providing solutions and expert, helpful service that benefit users of reflective technology products. We handle every inquiry with personal attention because your business is important to us. Our expert team is ready to advise you on your specific application needs and to offer technical knowledge to answer any questions you may have. 

'''Superior Products'''
----

Innovative Energy offers high-performing insulation products featuring energy-efficient radiant thermal technology.Products include: AstroShield, astroECO<sup>TM</sup>, R+HEATSHIELD<sup>R</sup>, Garage Door Insulation Kits, Water Heater Jackets, and InsulTote<sup>R</sup>.

The company’s leading product, AstroShield (an improved version of the product previously known as ASTRO-FOIL), features a new metalized aluminum surface and combines a vapor barrier, an air infiltration barrier and reflective insulation all in one. It consists of two compact layers of polyethylene air-bubble pockets sandwiched between metalized aluminum film and is ideal for use in metal and post-frame buildings, garages, garage doors and more. 

I.E.’s radiant barrier product line extends the utility of thermal performance in areas such as attics and crawl spaces by improving the efficiency of existing insulation. R+HEATSHIELD<sup>R</sup> is effective in controlling temperature and eliminating moisture problems. 

The InsulTote line of packaging products offers solutions for customers in the food, floral and medical supply industries. The outstanding thermal performance of our boxes, pouches, bags and other protective packaging means your temperature-sensitive products deliver safely. Most insulated packaging is big and bulky—but not InsulTote. Our compact sizes mean customers benefit from reductions in shipping costs, warehouse labor and storage space. 

'''Help the Environment with astroECO<sup>TM</sup>'''
----

astroECO<sup>TM</sup> is Innovative Energy’s leading environmentally friendly reflective insulation product line for customers looking for a green alternative. Featuring polyethylene bubble film manufactured from 25 percent recycled material, this inner bubble film is sandwiched between two protective sheets, one or both of which has a metalized aluminum surface. The metalized aluminum film blocks 95 percent of radiant heat, unlike other types of insulation such as fiberglass, cellulose and foam, which absorb heat. When materials absorb heat, they merely slow down its transfer. astroECO<sup>TM</sup> can dramatically improve thermal performance and energy efficiency, keeping energy costs lower and interior spaces more comfortable.

'''Why Use It?'''

* Cuts energy consumption and costs
* Improves interior comfort
* Made with recycled materials; offers a green, environmentally friendly insulation option 
* Environmentally safe and non-toxic
* Lightweight; easy and safe to install
* Thinner design makes it a less bulky, more affordable alternative
* Can reduce condensation
* Class A/Class 1 fire rating
* astroECO White II conforms to the requirements of the NFPA 286 full-room burn test
* Verified by Reflective Insulation Manufacturers Association International (RIMA-I), which means these reflective products have fulfilled test requirements in accordance with the current applicable code standards
* Available in a wide variety of sizes