{{mergeto|shelter}}

* bigger picture, broader issues, context
* bangladesh, peru, african floods, philippines tornados etc.
* shelters, yes, it could be better
* $265 is the cost of a disaster tent
* $100 for air freight
** as an architect, how did I wind up having to do tents?
* tents is what we do
* climate events: 70% of disasters, 1bn affected
* lots of small disasters
* risk reduction, exceptions (wars, refugees, cold climate etc.)
* shelter should - protection from climate, security/safety, public health, family/community life, dignity
* promote - communal, [[self-sufficiency]], risk reduction, minimize economic/environmental impact, positive economic effects
* consider - enough space, protection from risk, services, community resources (schools etc.), energy inputs, food storage, refuse, cultural appropriateness.
* informed by - scale of disaster, climate, political/security, rural/urban, host community issues, govt. etc. mandates.
* disaster timeline
** before disaster - built their own hoses etc.
** during disaster - support sheltering, materials, cash, labor, help
** after disaster - goes back to pre-disaster housing processes
* support process, local innovations, innovative processes, flexible niche solutions

A few examples of emergency shelter:
* the [[Hexayurt]] project
* [[ShelterBox Relief Tent]]
* [[Shelter]] and [[Shelters]]
* [[Monolithic domes]]
* [http://www.inhabitat.com/2008/09/03/matthew-malone-recovery-shelter/ "The Accordion reCover Shelter"] "designed by Matthew Malone, Amanda Goldberg, Jennifer Metcalf and Grant Meacham. They have successfully constructed and tested two full-size prototypes and have found them to hold up well against heavy winds and snow."
* [http://inhabitat.com/2010/01/14/emergency-shelters-and-disaster-relief-for-the-people-of-haiti/ "Emergency Shelters and Disaster Relief For The People of Haiti"] by Bridgette Meinhold 2010

[[Category:Emergency shelter]]
[[Category:Projects]]
[[Category:Construction]]
[[Category:Housing]]