==Insects as Food==
{{Main|Entomophagy}}
Sure, they are high in protein, and people eat them all over Mexico, and nightly on 'Fear Factor' I see mealworms, earth worms, blood worms, madagascar hissing cockroaches, cave spiders and scorpions being consumed en-mass by greedy 20 somethings with more stomach lining than sense.  (I know, I know - scorpions and spiders are not really insects... quit being so technical). Anyone consider these a real part of their diet, or are they more of a novelty ?

==Insects as Pests==
Some insects such as locusts have a history of being a pest.

==Insects as garden helpers==
{{Main| Biological control agents}}
"There are no bad bugs in my garden, just Predator Bug Food."  The concept of using insects as pest management is part of [[Integrated Pest Management]], or IPM.

== Ants and Aphids ==

Ants and aphids have a symbiotic relationship and are often found together on plants. Ants protect aphid eggs during the winter and then take them to a food source when they are born. As aphids eat, they secrete "honeydew," a sugary substance which the ants then suck out of them.

When they become a pest problem, some management techniques include the use of diatomaceous earth and adding predators, like chickens.

[http://www.richsoil.com/antsandaphids/ ants and aphids on my apple tree] at richsoil.com
[http://science.jrank.org/pages/462/Aphids-Ants-aphids.html Aphids - Ants and Aphids] at science.jrank.org
[http://www.permies.com/permaculture-forums/10_0/organic-sustainable-practices/ants-and-aphids forum on ants and aphids] at permies.com

==Insects as Pets==

=See Also=
*[[Food]]

[[Category:Insects]]
[[Category:Agriculture]]
[[Category:Food and agriculture]]
[[Category:Animals]]
[[Category:Pest control]]