
{{QASpage}}

General climate change, microfinance, and feed-in-tarriffs
1. Alley , R. B., J. Marotzke, W. D. Nordhaus, J. T. Overpeck, D. M. Peteet, R. A. Pielke, Jr., R. T. Pierrehumbert, P. B. Rhines, T. F. Stocker, L. D. Talley, and J. M. Wallace    (2003), Abrupt Climate Change, (28 March 2003), Science 299 (5615), 2005-2010.

2. Ashta, A. and D. Assadi. (2008). Do Social Cause and Social Technology Meet? Impact of Web 2.0 Technologies on Peer-to-Peer Lending Transactions (October 9, 2008). Available at SSRN: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1281373

3. Ayres. E. (2000). The four spikes, Futures, 32, (6), August 2000, 539-554

4. Basu, P. and P. Srivastava. (2005). Scaling-up microfinance for India June 2005, World Bank Policy Research Working Paper No. 3646, 1-34

5. Beck, T., Demirguc-Kunt, A. and Martinez, P.M.S. (2005) ‘Reaching out: access to and use of banking services across countries’, World Bank, September. Accessed from http://siteresources.worldbank.org/DEC/Resources/ReachingOutSept9.pdf.

6. Caldeira. K and A.K. Jain, M. I. Hoffert (2003), Climate Sensitivity Uncertainty and the Need for Energy Without CO2 Emission, Science 299, 2052-2054

7. Crabb, P. (2008). Economic Freedom and the Success of Microfinance Institutions,

8. Dincer, I. (2000). Renewable energy and sustainable development: a crucial review, Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 4, (2), June 2000, 157-175.

9. Fehr, D. and G. Hishigsuren. (2006). Raising Capital for Microfinance: Sources of Funding and Opportunities for Equity Financing, Journal Of Developmental Entrepreneurship, Vol. 11, No. 2 (2006) 133–143, © World Scientific Publishing Company

10. GEAA, Ontario Green Energy Act Alliance (2009), Green Energy Act, http://www.greenenergyact.ca/Page.asp?PageID=1224&SiteNodeID=202&BL_ExpandID=44

11. Godquin, M. (2004) Microfinance Repayment Performance in Bangladesh: How to Improve the Allocation of Loans by MFIs, World Development, Volume 32, Issue 11, November 2004, Pages 1909-1926, via(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/B6VC6-4DN12J5-3/2/2f9898bfbdc4396b1e468708df03b2cc)

12. IEA, International Energy Agency. (2007). Medium Term Oil Market Report, accessed via http://online.wsj.com/public/resources/documents/iea20070707.pdf

13. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). (2001). Summary for Policymakers, Climate Change 2001:Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerablity. Available: <http://www.ipcc.ch/pdf/climate-changes-2001/synthesis-spm/synthesis-spm-en.pdf>

14. Lai, L.S.L, E. Turban. (2008). Groups Formation and Operations in the Web 2.0, Group Decision and Negotiation, Springer Netherlands ,Volume 17, Number 5 / September, 2008, 387-402

15. Liming, H. (2009). Financing rural renewable energy: A comparison between China and India, Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, Volume 13, Issue 5, June 2009, Pages 1096-1103

16. Moser, C. and D. Satterthwaite. (2008). Towards Pro-Poor Adaptation To Climate Change In The Urban Centres Of Low- And Middle-Income Countries, November 2008 IIED.

17. Nova-Hildesley J. (2006). From idea to impact: Funding invention for sustainability , Innovations, 2006, 31–42.

18. OPA, Ontario Power Authority (2009), Feed-in Tariff Program Development, http://www.powerauthority.on.ca/fit/Page.asp?PageID=1226&SiteNodeID=1039

19. Peters, R. and T. Weis (2008). Feeding the Grid Renewably – Using feed-in tariffs to capitalize on renewable energy (primer), February 2008, the Pembina Institute, 1- 23, via http://pubs.pembina.org/reports/FITariffs_Primer.pdf

20. Pritchard, J. (2005), About.com: Banking/Loans : How Peer to Peer Lending Works, accessed from http://banking.about.com/od/peertopeerlending/a/peertopeerlend.htm

21. ProVention Consortium (2007) Making Disaster Risk Reduction Work, The 2007 ProVention Forum, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania (accessed from http://www.proventionconsortium.org/themes/default/pdfs/Forum_2007_report.pdf).

22. Rao, PSC., J B Miller, Y D Wang and J B. Byrne (2009). Energy-microfinance intervention for below poverty line households in India, Energy Policy, 37, (5), May 2009, 1694-1712

23. REN 21, Renewable Energy Policy Network for the 21st Century. (2009). Renewable Energy Policy Network for the 21st Century. (2009). Renewables Global Status Report 2009 Update. (Paris: REN21 Secretariat): Copyright © (C) 2009 Deutsche Gesellschaft füur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) GmbH, 1-32.

24. Robinson, M. (2001). The Microfinance Revolution: Sustainable Finance for the Poor World Bank, Washington, 2001,199-215

25. Srinivasan, S. (2007), "Microfinance for Renewable Energy: Financing the 'Former Poor'.", World Review of Entrepreneurship Management and Sustainable Development 3.1 ,79-89 i need this....

26. Waterfield, C. (2001). DESIGNING MICROFINANCE LOAN PRODUCTS, MFI Solutions, LLC, 10 January 2001, 1-16. Accessed from http://www.microfin.com/files/UWash/Designing%20micro-loan%20products.doc.

27. WFC, World Future Council. (2007). Feed-in Tariffs – Boosting Energy for our future, accessed from : http://www.worldfuturecouncil.org/fileadmin/user_upload/Maja/Feed-in_Tariffs_WFC.pdf

28. WISIONS, Wuppertal Institute for Climate, Environment and Energy, (2006), Microfinance and renewable Energy Investing in a sustainable future, I. Issue 2006, accessed from http://www.gdrc.org/icm/environ/mf-renewablenergy.pdf

29. Ledgerwood, J. (2000). Microfinance Handbook: an Institutional and Financial Perspective. Washington DC: The World Bank.

30. WBGU, German Advisory Council on Global Change. (2008), Solving the climate dilemma: the budget approach
General wind energy, Iran wind energy, Iran FIT, Iran Finance

31. Doutwaite, Boru. Blowing in the wind: “How ‘bottom-up’ beat ‘top-down’ for the billion-dollar wind turbine industry” Enabling Innovation

32. Table of Feed-in tariffs Worldwide , via http://www.wind-works.org/FeedLaws/TableofRenewableTariffsorFeed-InTariffsWorldwide.html (excel file)

33. Still, David. Wind Energy 2000 - Building the 10% © 2001 John Wiley & Sons

34. Burton, Tony; Sharpe, David; Jenkins, Nick; Bossanyi, Ervin. Wind Energy Handbook © 2001 John Wiley & Sons

35. Porkhial, Soheil. Bayazian, Aidin. WIND POTENTIAL AND ELECTRICITY GENERATION ASSESSMENT IN IRAN

36. Mohammad Ameri*, Mehdi Ghadiri and Mehdi Hosseini. Recent Advances in the Implementation of Wind Energy in Iran

37. B. Alijani, M. Ghohroudi, and N. Arabi. Developing a climate model for Iran using GIS

38. H. Kazemi Karegara,b, A.Zahedia,V. Ohisa, G. taleghanib and M. Khalajib. WIND AND SOLAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENTS IN IRAN

39. Iran’s FIT program: Article 69 of Iran’s 4th 5 year strategic plan http://iranenergy.org.ir/new%20energy/law%2062.pdf

40. Iran’s wind energy conference: http://www.iranwindenergy.com/eng/goals.htm

41. Judith Brandsma and Rafika Chaouali. MAKING MICROFINANCE WORK IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

42. Rahul Dhumale and Amela Sapcanin. An Application of Islamic Banking Principlest o Microfinance http://www.kantakji.com/fiqh/Files/Banks/Islamic%20Banking%20Principles%20to%20Microfinance.pdf

43. Ajaz Ahmed Khan. Islamic Microfinance: Theory, Practice, and Policy. http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.131.214&rep=rep1&type=pdf

44. Adnan Mazarei, The Iranian economy under the Islamic Republic: institutional change and macroeconomic performance (1979-1990)

45. The Iranian economy under the Islamic Republic: institutional change and macroeconomic performance (1979-1990)

46. Tarek Zahar, Kabir Hassan. A comparative literature survey of Islamic Finance

47. Dr. Soheil Porkhial 1 & Eng. Mahdi Rezaei 2 & Dr. Ahmad Kahrobaian. Determination of Site Selection Criteria for Wind Turbine Test Station in Iran

48. Dr. Kord Zangane: Other reasons exist for privatization. Ravand Institute http://www.ravandinstitute.com/pdfs/magazin/ravand-persian-42.pdf

49. Barat Ghobadian a, Gholamhassan Najafi a, Hadi Rahimi a, T.F. Yusaf, Future of Renewable Energies in Iran

50. Iran Ministry of Energy, Energy Facts Report 1386.

[[Category: Queens Applied Sustainability Group Literature Reviews]]