{{Lang|[[Le système Jean Pain|Français]] - [[Jean Pain system|English]]}}
{{Disagreement}}

==Introduction==
Jean Pain was a self taught Frenchman who designed a means of achieving (at least partial) [[energy]] autonomy, using inexpensive [[biomass]] fuel, with a mere mound.
==The principle==
Pile a mound of vegetable waste and wait : after a while, an anaerobic fermentation will take place, emitting heat and smell. After a further wait, the mound will turn into a fertilizing [[compost]].

Now grind the material in bits 2-3 mm thick. Build the mound; the aerobic fermentation taking place is odourless and yields more heat.
Jean Pain simply placed ground material inside a steel tank fitted with a pipe; the tank was in turn placed into a ground material mound.

==What does he get out of this ?==
* [[Methane]]. The pipe from the tank drives the methane produced in anaerobic fermentation to truck inner tubes to be stocked. Enough gas is produced to cook and power a (small french) car.
* Hot water. An additional copper tube is coiled around the tanks ; water runs through it and gets hot with the heat that aerobic  fermentation provides. Fean Pain designed this, in the first place, to cool the digester. He eventually found that it was useless to do so, but provided enough hot water to use for sanitation and space heating.
* Compost that can be used for home farming or sold.

== External links ==
*[http://journeytoforever.org/biofuel_library/methane_pain.html Biofuels Library]
*[http://www.jean-pain.com Jean Pain 's official website]
*[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jean_Pain English Wikipedia article on Jean Pain methods]

[[Category:Biogas]]
[[Category:Anaerobic_digestion]]