Robby Butler Alex Weitman

{{242}}{{242TRIZ}}[[category:242 TRIZ 3D printers]]
[[User:Rdbutler3|Rdbutler3]] ([[User talk:Rdbutler3|talk]]) 06:27, 24 April 2017 (PDT)rdbutler3[[User:Rdbutler3|Rdbutler3]] ([[User talk:Rdbutler3|talk]]) 06:27, 24 April 2017 (PDT)
[[User:Rdbutler3|Rdbutler3]] ([[User talk:Rdbutler3|talk]]) 06:56, 24 April 2017 (PDT)alex.weitman[[User:Rdbutler3|Rdbutler3]] ([[User talk:Rdbutler3|talk]]) 06:56, 24 April 2017 (PDT)

## improve resolution (atomic) - by creating continuing shells smaller and smaller, the printer can maintain accuracy down to very small levels
## Nest a very small print head inside of your regular print bed space, so that the printer can print using dual extrusion, but on different axes and at a very small scale
## The printer is storable inside itself, so it may nest in the bed when not in use, saving space.
## The printer's Y axis is designed accordion-style, so it may fold flat but expand out, segment by segment, when the front wall is pulled.
## The printer is formed out of three frames, the outer frame, the axis frame, and the extruder frame, and each can snap quickly into each other because they all fit inside of each other. This is the basic design for several ideas, see below.
## Change the Jellybox scale so that 3 sizes are offered, small, medium, and large. Each can be stored inside the other.
## Sell unrealistic scales of Jellybox: printing on a microscopic or megascopic level. 
## Sell different sized printers instead of each other to save shelf space.
## Offer parts for sale in frames, so that one can easily swap out entire portions of a printer (like the extruder) without a hassle. Plug and play is an example of this.
## Design auto-swapping print frames so that when an issue occurs while the user is absent, a different print frame can automatically carousel in and continue the print uninhibited.
## When finishing printing, have the front face of the Jellybox be a malleable design. Shape this malleable face to be exactly the shape of each print, and send the finished product through the perfect space in the front.
## In the new frame design, include the PLA material in the Extruder frame design so that no external PLA is visible. This saves space and design flaws.
## With the new frame design, make the swapping out of Jellybox parts in frames create electricity which powers the printer. This will be done in a method similar to Rolex.
## Have a frame outside of all Jellybox print frames which is a soundproof cover, to protect the print from light and any users in the area from noise.
## Make a rubberized case that fits outside of the Jellybox so that you can throw the printer off of a jobsite with no damage occured.
## Sell Jellybox in circle shapes, which can be nested inside of each other as above.
## Sell Jellybox in triangle shapes which can be nested inside of each other.
## Sell Jellybox in cyclindrical shapes which can be nested inside of each other.
## Sell Jellybox in conic shapes which can be nested inside of each other.
## Prevent vibration by placing vibrating parts in shells of other parts, removing vibration by nesting the parts inside other parts.
## enable auto monitoring by printing a holographic nesting doll and visually verifying the accuracy by comparing it to the nest.
## enable quality control by comparing prints to an automatically-printed exterior nesting shell of the print.
## enable real-time feedback through the visible holographic nest surrounding the oncoming print.
## make it safer by making the exterior nesting shell clear and completely enclosed.
## make is smell good by creating a smell-absorbing shell.
## make all exterior shells from current waste products by remelting print waste (skirts, failed prints) and reforming them.