Robby Butler and Alex Weitman's page

## Cut large amounts of holes in the current Jellybox frame to save materials
## improve resolution through careful mathematic manipulation of patterned porous material. This prints material that is able to print at half the resolution of the current resolution because the porous holes are carefully placed and accounted for by the print software.
## reduce costs of materials (see above)
## improve print speed by overemphasizing infill percentages and placing porous holes in the infill itself.
## improve print speed by estimating areas where even the print shell can have porous holes in it to save material and time
##reduce materials to make parts of the printer by creating porous holes in the motor shells, 
##reduce materials to make parts of the printer by creating porous holes in the zip ties, 
## reduce materials to make parts of the printer by creating porous holes in the printed parts inside the printer.
## reduce costs of printer by creating porous holes in all possible material (see above)
## Make the printer lighter to carry by creating porous holes in all possible materials.
## Make it easier to assemble by creating porous holes for easy access to build through
## make it easier to maintain by creating porous holes for easy access to maintain
## Reduce waste by printing porous holes in skirts and brims
## Creating quieter printing by surrounding printers with porous materials that absorb sound
## Create a self-cleaning printer by having a sponge on an arm to clean the print bed after each print
## Create a self-cleaning printer by having a sponge to clean the exterior of the acrylic after each movement of the printer.
## Create a musical printer by carving porous holes in the printer, and placing it outside so each wind movement creates sound!
## Replace Z, X, and Y stops with absorbent sponges to cushion the print against crashes.
## At huge scales, print materials will be automatically porous, to save large amounts of materials. These holes will be insignificant based on the actual size.
## Pour water onto the print bed for highly sensitive leveling. Then, use a porous material (sponge) to soak up the water before the print begins. 
## Have a sponge soaked in acetone to massage the print right after it is finished to get a nice shiny print.
## Have a sponge soaked in oil to keep the printer lubricated for self-healing
## Make the printer float using a floatable porous floaty
## Make an exterior of a soft porous material so that children can't hit their heads on the sharp acrylic.
## Put sponges on the sides so you can print while driving by absorbing exterior vibrations.
## Create a surprise print feature by having a semi-opaque porous material so you can't quite tell how the print is going until you receive it.
## Have an automatically-generated, rough porous material ready to scrub away any existence of a poor print when they occur.
{{242}}{{242TRIZ}}[[category:242 TRIZ 3D printers]]
[[User:Rdbutler3|Rdbutler3]] ([[User talk:Rdbutler3|talk]]) 06:16, 24 April 2017 (PDT)Robby Butler[[User:Rdbutler3|Rdbutler3]] ([[User talk:Rdbutler3|talk]]) 06:16, 24 April 2017 (PDT)