= Journals =
'''If you are contributing to Appropedia here are some journals to consider publishing in.'''

The [http://www.doaj.org/ Directory of Open Access Journals] is a great place to start as well or the [http://openaccessjournals.googlepages.com/home Open Access Journal Search] Open access journal impact http://www.eigenfactor.org/openaccess/

''Impact Factors'' follow the journal's name with (year) found, Newer journals will not have an impact factor. Sustainability/[[Appropriate technology]] is a new and growing interdisciplinary field and impact factors are of lesser value to it than a conventional field like medicine.

The ideal journal would have 1) rapid peer review, 2) open access, 3) no publication charges and 4) a high impact factor.

A list of potentially predatory open access pay to play journals that you may want to consider avoiding - http://scholarlyoa.com/publishers/

== Economics Related Journals ==
*[http://www.elsevier.com/wps/find/journaldescription.cws_home/503305/description#description Ecological Economics] (2009), Elsevier, Impact factor - 2.754, citation style: Harvard. Open Access solution available.

== Energy Related Journals ==
*[http://www.mnre.gov.in/akshayurja/contents.htm Akshay Urja] ( 2005 ), Renewable Energy newsletter of the Indian Ministry of New and Renewable Energy. Citation style not specified
*[http://www.elsevier.com/wps/find/journaldescription.cws_home/405891/description#description Applied Energy]  (2006), impact factor - 3.888, citation style: numbered. Open access solutions available
*[http://www.hedon.info/BoilingPoint Boiling Point] ( 1982 ), A practitioner’s journal on household stoves, energy and poverty reduction. Started by Practical Action. Style not specified. 
*[http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals/titles/15453669.asp  Distributed Generation and Alternative Energy Journal] This new journal replaces the Cogeneration and Distributed Generation Journal - Quarterly publication of the Association of Energy Engineers (AEE), published by Taylor & Francis, citation style: Harvard
*[http://www.elsevier.com/wps/find/journaldescription.cws_home/483/description#description Energy]  (2007), Elsevier,  3.565, citation style: numbered
*[http://www.elsevier.com/wps/find/journaldescription.cws_home/30413/description#description Energy Economics] (1979), Elsevier, impact factor - 2.449, citation style: Harvard
*[http://www.elsevier.com/wps/find/journaldescription.cws_home/717028/description#description Energy for Sustainable Development] (1994), Elsevier, impact factor - 1.043, citation style: Harvard
*[http://www.multi-science.co.uk/ee.htm Energy and the Environment] Multi-Science Publishing Company, editors are climate change skeptics, see [[Wikipedia:Energy_and_Environment|wikipedia's entry on them]])
*[http://www.rsc.org/ees Energy & Environmental Science],(2009), RSC Publishing, SJR- 0.61 
*[http://www.iaee.org/en/publications/Scope.aspx Energy Journal], (1980), SJR- 0.707. Published by International Association for Energy Economics, citation style: Harvard
*[http://www.elsevier.com/locate/enpol Energy Policy], (1973), Elsevier, impact factor - 2.614,  Harvard style, 
*[http://www.journals.elsevier.com/energy-reports Energy Reports], new 2014 Elsevier open access $1500, rapid review numbered refs.
*[http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals/authors/uesoauth.asp Energy Sources], (2006), Taylor and Francis, SJR - 0.05, Chicago style
*[http://digitalcommons.mcmaster.ca/esr/  Energy Studies Review], (1991), McMaster University, applied energy policy journal, open access. SJR - 0.025,
*[http://www.energsustainsoc.com/ Energy Sustainability and Society] - new, Springer Open Journal, Interdisciplinary Forum for Research, Development & Implementation of Sustainable Energy Systems. Style - Harvard
* [http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/uetp20#.UvFEjRB5FqQ Energy Technology & Policy]- new 2014 Taylor Francis open access
*[http://www.inderscience.com/browse/index.php?journalCODE=ijgei International Journal of Global Energy Issues  (IJGEI)], (1989), Inderscience Publishers, SJR - 0.033, Open Access option. Harvard style. 
*[http://www.tandfonline.com/toc/ljge20/current#.UeQd2tFW7sd International Journal of Green Energy] - (2013 - 2.069) (author, date)
*[https://www.novapublishers.com/catalog/product_info.php?cPath=125&products_id=1710 International Journal of Energy, Environment and Economics], (2009), NOVA Publishers, SJR- 0.071
*[http://www.ijee.ieefoundation.org/  International Journal of Energy and Environment (IJEE)] - nice OA journal w society uses template
*[http://ijlct.oxfordjournals.org/ International Journal of Low-Carbon Technologies], (2007), Oxford University Press, SJR- 0.03, Open Access Option, Arabic numerals style
*[http://www.ashdin.com/journals/JFREA/jfrea.aspx The Journal of Fundamentals of Renewable Energy and Applications], new, Ashdin Publishing. Numbered citation style, open access
*[http://www.ashdin.com/journals/iep/iep.aspx Innovative Energy Policies], (2010), Ashdin Publishing, open access, numbered citation style
*[http://www.hindawi.com/journals/ijp/ International Journal of Photoenergy], (1999), SJR - 0.04, impact factor: 1.345, open access, numbered citation style ($1250 apc)
*[http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals/titles/14786451.asp International Journal of Sustainable Energy], (2003), Taylor & Francis. SJR - 0.035. Harvard Style.
*[http://www.interscience.wiley.com/jpages/0363-907X/ International Journal of Energy Research], (2005), John Wiley & Sons Inc., Impact Factor: 1.86, Numbered style 
*[http://www.ijesci.org/ International Journal of Energy Science], (2011), World Academic Publishing, open access, free, numbered citations 
* [http://www.pakinsight.com/?ic=aimandscope&journal=13 International Journal of Sustainable Energy and Environmental Research (IJSEER) ] - new 2012 very low volume OA
*[http://www.collegepublishing.us/jesdhome.htm Journal of Engineering for Sustainable Development: Energy, Environment, and Health], College Publishing, Harvard style 
*[http://www.inderscience.com/browse/index.php?journalID=13&year=2009&vol=31&issue=3/4 International Journal of Global Energy Issues], (1989), Inderscience Publishers, SJR - 0.033, Harvard style
*[http://openaccesspub.org/journals/index.php?jid=5 Journal of Energy Conservation] - open access pub - new 2012 $540, numbered citations
*[http://irps2.ucsd.edu/jed/ Journal of Environment and Development], (1996), SAGE, Harvard style, SJR - 0.075
*[http://eds.ieee.org/jpv.html Journal of Photovoltaics] - IEEE, new, numbered references
*[http://jrse.aip.org/ Journal of Renewable and Sustainable Energy], (2008), American Institute of Physics. Numbered references
*[http://ww2.asme.org/techpubs/template.cfm?title=Journal%20of%20Solar%20Energy%20Engineering Journal of Solar Energy Engineering],(1980), ASME - American Society of Mechanical Engineers, SJR - 0.056 (style not specified)
* [http://www.springer.com/materials/journal/40243?cm_mmc=ISI-_-CFP-_-SPR16565_V2-_-0 Materials for Renewable and Sustainable Energy] (2012) open access, Springer, free publishing - refs numbered brackets
* [http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayJournal?jid=MRE MRS Energy & Sustainability—A Review Journal]. 
*[http://www.icevirtuallibrary.com/content/serial/ener  Proceedings of ICE, Energy], (2007), Harvard style
*[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10.1002/%28ISSN%291099-159X Progress in Photovoltaics], (1994), Wiley & Sons Inc. Numbered style, Impact factor: 4.72, SJR - 0.40
*[http://www.elsevier.com/wps/find/journaldescription.cws_home/969/description#description Renewable Energy], (1991), Elsevier, impact factor: 2.554, SJR - 0.10, numbered style
*[http://www.scirp.org/journal/sgre/ Smart Grid and Renewable Energy], (2011) Open Access, numbered style citations
*[http://www.elsevier.com/locate/inca/329/ Solar Energy], (1957), Elsevier, Impact factor: 2.135, Harvard Style, SJR - 0.10, open access available
*[http://www.elsevier.com/locate/solmat Solar Energy Materials and Solar Cells], (1992), Elsevier, Impact factor: 4.593, SJR - 0.30, Harvard style
*[http://www.elsevier.com/wps/find/journaldescription.cws_home/728257/description#description Sustainable Energy Technologies and Assessments] (2012) Elsevier, numbered refs

===Energy related journals from Elsevier listed by impact factor ===

{| cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" border="1"
|-
| Journal Title
| 2011 Impact Factor
|-
|
| align="right" |
| align="right" |
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/q3CKW22F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F Solar Energy Materials And Solar Cells]
| align="right" | 4.593
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/qLCBN22F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F Renewable & Sustainable Energy Reviews]
| align="right" | 4.567
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/q33B522F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F Journal Of Power Sources]
| align="right" | 4.283
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/qUCT522F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control]
| align="right" | 4.073
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/qCUTN22F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F International Journal Of Hydrogen Energy]
| align="right" | 4.053
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/q4LTN22F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F Applied Energy]
| align="right" | 3.888
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/qLUBE22F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F Biomass & Bioenergy]
| align="right" | 3.840
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/q3UKN22F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F Fuel]
| align="right" | 3.602
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/qU3BW22F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F Energy]
| align="right" | 3.565
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/qCU2E22F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F Fuel Processing Technology]
| align="right" | 2.781
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/qLCK522F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F Energy Policy]
| align="right" | 2.614
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/qD3BN22F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F Renewable Energy]
| align="right" | 2.554
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/qVUBW22F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F Solar Energy]
| align="right" | 2.135
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/qVL2522F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F Energy Conversion And Management]
| align="right" | 2.054
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/qM3T522F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F International Journal Of Electrical Power & Energy Systems]
| align="right" | 2.073
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mUCK522F/qDLBE22F/uNTZ1AQE/x3CGN22F Electric Power Systems Research]
| align="right" | 1.396
|-
|}

{| cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" border="0"
|-
| Rank of energy journal-- I am not sure that there are not errors in this -- EEST is abnormally high.
| Title
| 2011 Impact Factor
|}

{| cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" border="0"
| 1
| ENERGY EDUCATION SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
| align="right" | 31.677
|-
| 2
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mBCM987F/qKU4987F/uNTZ1AQE/xJPRZ87F/cutf%2D8 PROGRESS IN ENERGY AND COMBUSTION SCIENCE]
| align="right" | 14.220
|-
| 3
| ENERGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE
| align="right" | 9.610
|-
| 4
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mBCM987F/qT3VI87F/uNTZ1AQE/xJPRZ87F/cutf%2D8 RENEWABLE & SUSTAINABLE ENERGY REVIEWS]
| align="right" | 6.018
|-
| 5
| PROGRESS IN PHOTOVOLTAICS
| align="right" | 5.789
|-
| 6
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mBCM987F/qBUD087F/uNTZ1AQE/xJPRZ87F/cutf%2D8 INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF GREENHOUSE GAS CONTROL]
| align="right" | 5.111
|-
| 7
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mBCM987F/qK34I87F/uNTZ1AQE/xJPRZ87F/cutf%2D8 APPLIED ENERGY]
| align="right" | 5.106
|-
| 8
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mBCM987F/qTCMR87F/uNTZ1AQE/xJPRZ87F/cutf%2D8 BIORESOURCE TECHNOLOGY]
| align="right" | 4.980
|-
| 9
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mBCM987F/qB3D987F/uNTZ1AQE/xJPRZ87F/cutf%2D8 JOURNAL OF POWER SOURCES]
| align="right" | 4.951
|-
| 10
| BIOFUELS BIOPRODUCTS & BIOREFINING-BIOFPR
| align="right" | 4.738
|-
| 11
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mBCM987F/qKCVI87F/uNTZ1AQE/xJPRZ87F/cutf%2D8 SOLAR ENERGY MATERIALS AND SOLAR CELLS]
| align="right" | 4.542
|-
| 12
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mBCM987F/q23M087F/uNTZ1AQE/xJPRZ87F/cutf%2D8 INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HYDROGEN ENERGY]
| align="right" | 4.054
|-
| 13
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mBCM987F/qBC4I87F/uNTZ1AQE/xJPRZ87F/cutf%2D8 BIOMASS & BIOENERGY]
| align="right" | 3.646
|-
| 14
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mBCM987F/qKLMR87F/uNTZ1AQE/xJPRZ87F/cutf%2D8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE COMBUSTION INSTITUTE]
| align="right" | 3.633
|-
| 15
| GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY BIOENERGY
| align="right" | 3.617
|-
| 16
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mBCM987F/q2CD987F/uNTZ1AQE/xJPRZ87F/cutf%2D8 COMBUSTION AND FLAME]
| align="right" | 3.585
|-
| 17
| BIOENERGY RESEARCH
| align="right" | 3.562
|-
| 18
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mBCM987F/qBLVI87F/uNTZ1AQE/xJPRZ87F/cutf%2D8 ENERGY]
| align="right" | 3.487
|-
| 19
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mBCM987F/qT3M087F/uNTZ1AQE/xJPRZ87F/cutf%2D8 FUEL]
| align="right" | 3.248
|-
| 20
| FUEL CELLS
| align="right" | 3.149
|}

* Top ten energy journals [http://sciencewatch.com/dr/sci/08/jun22-08_1/]
* Top ten environmental studies [http://sciencewatch.com/dr/sci/09/apr26-09_1/]
* Top ten materials science [http://sciencewatch.com/dr/sci/09/may24-09_1/]
* Top ten all fields [http://sciencewatch.com/dr/sci/09/aug2-09_2/]

=== Photovoltaic Technical Journals ===
*[http://eds.ieee.org/jpv.html Journal of Photovoltaics] - new IEEE, no rating available, numbered style
*[http://journaltool.asme.org/Content/JournalDescriptions.cfm?journalId=15&Journal=SOL Journal of Solar Energy Engineering], (1980), Publisher: American Society of Mechanical Engineers, SJR - 0.056, style not specified
*[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10.1002/%28ISSN%291099-159X Progress in Photovoltaics], Wiley, Impact Factor: 5.627, numbered citation style 
*[http://www.elsevier.com/locate/inca/329/ Solar Energy], Elsevier, Impact factor: 2.135, Harvard citation style
*[http://www.elsevier.com/locate/solmat Solar Energy Materials and Solar Cells], Elsevier, Impact factor: 4.593, Harvard Style
----
Also JAP, APL, Thin Solid Films, JNCS, Crystal journals for the materials.

== Environment Related Journals ==
*[http://www.alternativesjournal.ca Alternatives Journal], (1971), Published by Environmental Studies Association of Canada, Environmental Ideas and Action
*[http://www.conservationandsociety.org/ Conservation and Society] An interdisciplinary journal exploring linkages between society, environment and development, Open Access, Harvard style citation. 
*[http://www.elsevier.com/wps/find/journaldescription.cws_home/718675/description#description Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability] new 2010, Elsvier, impact factor: 2.100, Harvard Style
*[http://www.ecologyandsociety.org/ Ecology and Society], A journal of integrative science for resilience and sustainability. Open access, Harvard Style 
*[http://www.multi-science.co.uk/ee.htm Energy and the Environment] Multi-Science Publishing Company, 0.189 (severe delay, editors are climate change skeptics)
*[http://www.liebertpub.com/publication.aspx?pub_id=259 Environmental Justice] (2008), Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. publishers. All references must be cited as footnotes - see Chicago style Chapter 15, Open Access available, SJR: 0.269
*[http://www.environtechnol.co.uk/ Environmental Technology] Taylor & Francis, SJR 0.894, numbered style
*[http://journals.cambridge.org/jid_ENC Environmental Conservation], Cambridge Journals Online, 1.739, Harvard Style
*[http://www.macrothink.org/journal/index.php/emsd/index Environmental Management and Sustainable Development] new 2012 OJS (APA style)
*[http://pubs.acs.org/journals/esthag/ Environment Science and Technology], ACS Publications, 4.825 (2010), numbered style
*[http://www.oekom.de/etc/gaia GAIA – Ecological Perspectives for Science and Society] (1991), 0,894 (2010), Open access - CC 3.0. Chicago style author, date 
*[http://greentheoryandpraxis.org/journal/index.php/journal The Journal of Ecopedagogy: Green Theory & Praxis], Open Access, Chicago Manual Style. Also see [http://www.ecopedagogy.org/journal/ Ecopedagogy International] 
*[http://www.inderscience.com/browse/index.php?journalID=142 International Journal of Environment and Health  (IJEnvH)] (2007), InderScience Publishers, Open Access available, author, date style
*[http://www.ceers.org/ijest/  International Journal of Environmental Science and Technology], (2005), Harvard Style, 3.15 (cites per doc, 2 yr)
*[http://www.springer.com/environment/journal/11367 International Journal of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)], Springer, 3.148 (2011), Harvard
*[http://www.inderscience.com/browse/index.php?journalCODE=ijsdes International Journal of Sustainable Design  (IJSDes)] Inderscience,(2008), author, date style

{| cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" border="0"
|-
| rowspan="2" |
| colspan="2" | [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qRW0IFAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Environment International]
|-
| 2012 Impact Factor<br />NOW<br />6.248
| align="right" |
|}

{| cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" border="0"
|-
| rowspan="2" |
| colspan="2" | [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qR50RFAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Remote Sensing of Environment]
|-
| 2012 Impact Factor<br />NOW<br />5.103
| align="right" |
|}

{| cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" border="0"
|-
| rowspan="2" |
| colspan="2" | [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qRERRFAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Environmental Modelling & Software]
|-
| 2012 Impact Factor<br />NOW<br />3.476
| align="right" |
|}

{| cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" border="0"
|-
| rowspan="2" |
| colspan="2" | [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/q05R0FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Journal of Cleaner Production]
|-
| 2012 Impact Factor<br />NOW<br />3.398
| align="right" |
|}

{| cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" border="0"
|-
| rowspan="2" |
| colspan="2" | [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/q0EI9FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability]
|-
| 2012 Impact Factor<br />NOW<br />3.168
| align="right" |
|}

{| cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" border="0"
|-
| rowspan="2" |
| colspan="2" | [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/q0N9IFAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Ecological Complexity]
|-
| 2012 Impact Factor<br />NOW<br />2.340
| align="right" |
|}

Listed by highest Impact Factor

{| cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" border="0"
|-
! valign="bottom" | Journal title
! valign="bottom" align="right" | 2012 Impact Factor
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qI5RIFAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Global Environmental Change]
| align="right" | 5.236
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/q0W0RFAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Biological Conservation]
| align="right" | 3.794
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qIEIRFAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Aquatic Toxicology]
| align="right" | 3.730
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/q9E00FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Environmental Pollution]
| align="right" | 3.730
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qRW90FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 ISPRS Journal Of Photogrammetry And Remote Sensing]
| align="right" | 3.313
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/q9NR0FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Science of the Total Environment]
| align="right" | 3.258
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qR599FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Environmental Research]
| align="right" | 3.238
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/q9WI9FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Chemosphere]
| align="right" | 3.137
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qRE0IFAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Journal Of Environmental Management]
| align="right" | 3.057
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qDW00FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Environmental Science & Policy]
| align="right" | 2.978
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qVEI0FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Ecological Engineering]
| align="right" | 2.958
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qD509FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Ecological Indicators]
| align="right" | 2.890
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qVN99FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Ecological Economics]
| align="right" | 2.855
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qDER9FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Waste Management]
| align="right" | 2.485
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qVW0IFAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Resources, Conservation and Recycling]
| align="right" | 2.319
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qDNIIFAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Ecotoxicology And Environmental Safety]
| align="right" | 2.203
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qV50RFAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation]
| align="right" | 2.176
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qDW9RFAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Journal of Environmental Radioactivity]
| align="right" | 2.119
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qVERRFAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Ecological Modelling]
| align="right" | 2.069
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qME90FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 International Biodeterioration & Biodegradation]
| align="right" | 2.059
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/q45R0FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Ecological Informatics]
| align="right" | 1.961
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qMN09FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Environmental Impact Assessment Review]
| align="right" | 1.851
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/q4EI9FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Journal Of Environmental Sciences]
| align="right" | 1.773
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/qMWR9FAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Journal Of Arid Environments]
| align="right" | 1.772
|-
| [http://mail.elsevier-alerts.com/go.asp?/bESJ001/mIN90FAF/q4N9IFAF/uMCOQ64F/xUJOQFAF/cutf%2D8 Acta Oecologica]
| align="right" | 1.621
|}


*[http://www.inderscience.com/browse/index.php?journalCODE=ijsd International Journal of Sustainable Development], (2002), Harvard Style, cites per doc 0.26
*[http://www.sagepub.com/journalsProdDesc.nav?prodId=Journal201843 Journal of Education for Sustainable Development](2007), Sage, Chicago Manual Style
*[http://www.collegepublishing.us/jesdhome.htm Journal of Engineering for Sustainable Development: Energy, Environment, and Health], College Publishing, Harvard style 
*[http://irps2.ucsd.edu/jed/ Journal of Environment and Development], (1996), Sage, Chicago Manual Style, Cites per doc 0.82
*[http://www.journalofremanufacturing.com/ Journal of Remanufacturing]- brand new 2011 Springer Open access square brackets - zotero template available
*[http://www.journal-tes.dk/ The Journal of Transdisciplinary Environmental Studies (TES)] Open access, Published by Roskilde University, Denmark, Author, date, page
*[http://www.lead-journal.org/ Law, Environment and Development Journal], Open Access, footnote style
*[http://bentham.org/open/toenviej/ Open Environmental Engineering Journal] (2007), Bentham Open, Open Access, IEEE citation style (numbered with square brackets)
*[http://www.bentham.org/open/toenvirsj/ Open Environmental Sciences] (2006), Bentham Open, Open Access, numerical system (Vancouver)
*[http://upcommons.upc.edu/revistes/handle/2099/1208?locale=en Sostenible? (Sustainable?)] (1999), Trilingual, Published by Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya. Author guidelines link = error
*[http://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability Sustainability] (2009), MDPI Sci Forum, Open Access, numbered style square brackets
*[http://shop.elsevier.de/ufug Urban Forestry & Urban Greening],(2000), Elsevier, Cites per doc (2 yr) - 1.731, Harvard Style

== Open source hardware/scientific hardware journals==
* [http://www.journals.elsevier.com/hardwarex/ HardwareX] - Elsevier, numbered, $500APC, OA
* Journal of Open Hardware- Ubiquity launching 2017
* [http://joss.theoj.org/ Journal of Open Source Software] -  Ubiquity OA, low apc
* [http://journals.plos.org/plosone/ PLOS One] - OA APC
* [http://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/hub/journal/10.1002/(ISSN)2333-5084/ Earth and Space Science]- Wiley OA

== Science, Technology & Society ==
*[http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/109863476/home?CRETRY=1&SRETRY=0 Information Technology for Development], (1987), originally by Wiley, also covered by Taylor & Francis. Numbered references. Cites per doc: 0.892
*[http://itidjournal.org/itid Information Technologies and International Development], USC Press, Open Access (CC), APA style (Author, date), double-blind process
*[http://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/brill/pgdt Perspectives on Global Development and Technology], (2002), Published by Brill, Cites per doc: 0.077, some free issues
*[http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals/titles/08109028.asp Prometheus] Critical Studies in Innovation, (1996) by Taylor and Francis, Cites per doc: 0.313, reference style: author, year
*[http://www.plosone.org/home.action Public Library of Science (PLoS)One], (2006), Open, numbered style citations, Cites per doc: 4.08
*[http://www.sagepub.co.uk/journalsProdDesc.nav?prodId=Journal200804 Science Technology & Society: An International Journal Devoted to the Developing World],(1999), Sage Publications, Cites per doc: 0.429, Harvard style. 
*[http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals/USNR Society & Natural Resources], (1988), Taylor and Francis, 2010 Impact Factor: 1.117, citation style: author, date.
*[http://www.emeraldinsight.com/products/journals/author_guidelines.htm?id=wjstsd&PHPSESSID=gn53404ibm9a59jabf3n39nbe3#1 World Journal of Science, Technology and Sustainable Development (WJSTSD)], Published by Emerald, started in 2010 - very new. Citation style: Harvard

== Service Learning ==
See [[:Category:Service Learning Journals]]
*[[International Journal for Service Learning in Engineering]], Humanitarian Engineering and Social Entrepreneurship, Open Access, blind review.  Citation style: footnotes or author, date.

== Sustainable Development ==
*[http://consiliencejournal.org/ Consilience: The Journal of Sustainable Development] (2008), Columbia U. student founded, Open Access, Citation style: footnote/ endnote. 
*[http://www.elsevier.com/wps/find/journaldescription.cws_home/718675/description#description Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability], (2009), Elsevier,  indexed by Thompson, Impact factor: 2.100 (2011), Citation author, date
*[http://www.wiley.com/bw/journal.asp?ref=0012-155X Development and Change], (1981), Wiley - Blackwell.  Interdisciplinary journal with a social critical analysis of development, Impact Factor: 1.359 (2011), Citation: Author, date
* [https://www.elsevier.com/journals/development-engineering/2352-7285/guide-for-authors Development Engineering] - new, open access, $1500 fee, numbered refs
*[http://www.springer.com/environment/environmental+management/journal/10668 Environment, Development and Sustainability] (1999), Springer, double-blind review, Impact factor: 0.908(2010), Author, date style.
*[http://factsreports.revues.org/index.html Field Action Reports]
*[http://www.jfrugal.com/ The Journal of Frugal Innovation] - new 2014 OA $1000 fee author, date
*[http://www.ewb.org.au/explore/knowledgehubs/education/journal Journal of Humanitarian Engineering (JHE)] -oa, new
*[http://www.inderscience.com/browse/index.php?journalCODE=ijsd International Journal of Sustainable Development], (2002), Harvard Style, cites per doc 0.26
*[http://journals.witpress.com/jdne.asp The International Journal of Design & Nature and Ecodynamics](2006), WIT Press, Citation style: Author and numbered citation, Cites per Doc - 0.205
*[http://wscholars.com/index.php/ijds/index International Journal of Developing Societies](2012), OJS (author, date) $275 fee
*[http://journals.witpress.com/pages/jsus/default.asp International Journal of Sustainable Development and Planning] (2006), WIT Press, Cites per doc - 0.188, Numbered citations
*[http://ijedict.dec.uwi.edu/index.php  The International Journal of Education and Development using Information and Communication Technology (ijEDict)], (2005), Open Access, Harvard style (Author, date)
*[http://www.ifets.info/ Journal of Educational Technology & Society], Open Access, APA reference style (Author, date), double-blind review process, impact: 1.067 (2010)
*[http://www.collegepublishing.us/jesdhome.htm The Journal of Engineering for Sustainable Development] (new) College Publishing, looks stalled 2007
* [http://infinitypress.info/index.php/jsds Journal of Sustainable Development Studies] - new OJS 2012 , $80 processing fee
*[http://www.jsd-africa.com/ Journal of Sustainable Development in Africa] (1999), Published by: Clarion University of Pennsylvania. Style: Author, date. 
*[http://ccsenet.org/journal/index.php/jsd/ Journal of Sustainable Development] - Canadian Center of Science and Education, Open Access, Author, date style. 
*[http://www.scirp.org/journal/lce/ Low Carbon Economy] (2010), Scientific Research Publishing, Open Access, Style: numbered in square brackets
*[http://www.peacestudiesjournal.org.uk/ Peace, Conflict and Development] (2002), Open Access, reference style: numeric and footnotes
*[http://www.icevirtuallibrary.com/content/serial/ensu Proceedings of ICE, Engineering Sustainability](2003), Harvard (author, date) style, Two-year Impact Factor: 0.522.
*[http://www.thesolutionsjournal.com/ The Solutions Journal] - Open Access, magazine-like, Footnote numbered style. 
*[http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/WileyTitle/productCd-SD.html Sustainable Development ] (1994), Wiley and Sons, Impact: 1.209, Reference style: author, date
*[http://wscholars.com/index.php/jss Journal of Sustainable Society] (new 2012 - OJS) Reference style: author,date
*[http://www.elsevier.com/wps/find/journaldescription.cws_home/386/description#description World Development] Elsevier, Open Access available, Impact factor: 1.612(2011), reference style: author, date

== Sustainability Science ==
*[http://www.pnas.org/site/misc/sustainability.shtml The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA (PNAS)- Sustainability Science] Impact factor: 1.668 for 2010. Numbered citations 
* [http://sustainability.umich.edu/mjs/submissions/ The Michigan Journal of Sustainability  ] - new OA/ db peer review - how to deal with climate change, community author/date
*[http://www.springer.com/environment/environmental+management/journal/11625 Sustainability Science] (2007), Springer, Cites per doc - 1.467, reference style: author, date
*[http://sspp.proquest.com/ Sustainability: Science, Practice and Policy] (2005), open access, citation: author, date
*[http://www.liebertpub.com/publication.aspx?pub_id=252 Sustainability: The Journal of Record] (2007), citation: superscript Arabic numbers. Open access options.
* [http://www.nature.com/natsustain/?WT.mc_id=EMX_NATSUSTAIN_1704_Medlist_ISI&WT.ec_id=EXTERNAL Nature Sustainability] - new flexible initial submission
----
* [http://www.elementascience.org/ Elementa] - Science for the Anthropocene (academic run OA publisher - no charges)

== Other ==
*[http://pubs.acs.org/journal/ascecg ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering]-(2012)
*[http://journals.sfu.ca/affinities/index.php/affinities/index Affinities: A Journal of Radical Theory, Culture, and Action] (2007), Chicago style reference, open access
*[http://www.inderscience.com/browse/index.php?journalCODE=ijsm International Journal of Sustainable Manufacturing  (IJSM)] (2008), Inderscience, citations: author and date. 
*[http://www.inderscience.com/browse/index.php?journalCODE=ijssm International Journal of Sustainable Strategic Management (IJSSM)] (2008), Inderscience, citations: author and date.
* [http://www.inderscience.com/jhome.php?jcode=ijcssr International Journal of Corporate Strategy and Social Responsibility] author date
*[http://www.bepress.com/jbca Journal of Benefit-Cost Analysis (JBCA)] The Berkeley electronic press, open access references style: author, date. 
*[http://www.elsevier.com/wps/find/journaldescription.cws_home/30440/description#description Journal of Cleaner Production] (1993), Elsevier, Impact factor: 2.425, citation style: author, date.
* [http://www.tandfonline.com/action/authorSubmission?journalCode=tjri20&page=instructions Journal of Responsible Innovation] - Taylor and Francis new 2014, name date
* [http://www.earthscan.co.uk/?tabid=102398 Journal of Sustainable Finance & Investment] (2010), Taylor & Francis, author, date citation style
*[http://www.inderscience.com/browse/index.php?journalCODE=pie Progress in Industrial Ecology] (2004), Inderscience, Cites per doc: 0.333, citation: author, date 
*[http://www.blackwellpublishing.com/journal.asp?ref=1088-1980&site=1 Journal of Industrial Ecology] (1997), Wiley. Citation: author, date. Impact Factor: 2.446 
*[http://www.socialjusticejournal.org/ The Social Justice Journal: A Journal of Crime, Conflict & World Order] (1974), citation: author, date, 
*[http://www.elsevier.com/locate/technovation Technovation] (1981), Impact factor: 2.993, Citation: author, date
*[http://ci-journal.net/index.php/ciej Journal of Community Informatics] Enabling Communities with Information and Communications Technologies: (2008), open access. Citation: APA. 
* [http://jwelb.oxfordjournals.org/ Journal of World Energy Law & Business] (2008), Oxford press, reference style: footnote
* [http://info.emeraldinsight.com/products/journals/journals.htm?PHPSESSID=nna1hfknka0jtat8bcoqd7mms5&id=jgr Journal of Global Responsibility] (2010), Emerald, Harvard style citations
* [http://info.emeraldinsight.com/products/journals/journals.htm?PHPSESSID=av8vtocpgrcu2e1no1u1m03nj5&id=sampj Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal] (2010), Emerald, Harvard style  
* [http://epress.lib.uts.edu.au/ojs/index.php/ajict/ African Journal of Information & Communication Technology] (2005), University of technology, Sydney. Numbered citations, Open Access. 
* [http://www.elsevier.com/wps/find/journaldescription.cws_home/724189/description#description Sustainable Computing: Informatics and Systems] (2010), Elsevier, Numbered citations. 
* [http://www.journalofremanufacturing.com/about Journal of Remanufacturing] (2010), Springer, Open Access, numbered citations
* [http://www.scirp.org/journal/lce/ Low Carbon Economy] (2010), Scientific research, numbered citations, open access.
* [http://www.ijodir.org/ International Journal of Design and Innovation Research (IJODIR)] new 2008 Ref: name, date; uses template
* [http://peerproduction.net/ Journal of Peer Production] - new journal
* [http://www.labome.com/ Labome] is starting an open-access methodology review journal 'Materials and Methods'
* [http://theoryandpractice.citizenscienceassociation.org/ Citizen Science: Theory and Practice] is an open-access, peer-reviewed journal  author, date, $500 GBP fee
* [http://riojournal.com/ Research Ideas and Outcomes] - open access free for all - publish all kinds of things - research ideas free until april 2016

==3D printing journals==

* [http://link.springer.com/journal/170 The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology] (JIF=1.205) [http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs00170-012-4605-2 http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs00170-012-4605-2]
* Rapid Prototyping Journal.The international journal for research on additive manufacturing and 3D printing. [http://www.emeraldinsight.com/products/journals/journals.htm?id=RPJ http://www.emeraldinsight.com/products/journals/journals.htm?id=RPJ]  (JIF=1.02)
* '''[http://www.news-medical.net/news/20130629/Mary-Ann-Liebert-announces-launch-of-3D-Printing-and-Additive-Manufacturing-journal.aspx 3D Printing and Additive Manufacturing journal]''' ([http://www.liebertpub.com/ Mary Ann Liebert, Inc., publishers]) [http://www.liebertpub.com/ http://www.liebertpub.com/] new
* '''Journal of Manufacturing Technology Management. '''[http://www.emeraldinsight.com/journals.htm?articleid=1810508 http://www.emeraldinsight.com/journals.htm?articleid=1810508]
* [http://www.journals.elsevier.com/additive-manufacturing/ Additive Manufacturing ] - Elsevier new, numbered refs
* [http://www.springer.com/materials/journal/40861 3D printed materials and systems] - Springer new, fully open access
* [http://www.springer.com/engineering/production+engineering/journal/40964 Progress in Additive Manufacturing] - Springer, new open access APC numbered
* [https://link.springer.com/journal/12541 International Journal of Precision Engineering and Manufacturing] Springer, IF 1.0, pay $315, 6 pages, template, numbered

== Journal rankings ==
* [http://ict4dblog.wordpress.com/2010/04/14/ict4d-journal-ranking-table/ ICT4D Journal Rankings - 2010]
* [http://ict4dblog.wordpress.com/2010/06/17/development-studies-journal-ranking-table/ Dev Studies Journal rankings - 2010]

==Medical==

* JMIR journal ([http://jmir.org/ http://jmir.org/])
*http://journals.plos.org/plosmedicine/
* http://www.cureus.com/about
* The big ones http://impactfactor.weebly.com/medicine.html

== Magazines and Quasi-Journals==
* [http://www.sustainability.ie/magazine.html Sustainability Institute Journal] Irish - stalled on issue 3
* [http://www.ecoiq.com/sustainability/magazine/index.html EcoIQ Sustainability and Stewardship] (1998), Open Access
* [http://www.publish.csiro.au/?nid=214 ECOS - Towards a Sustainable Future] (1974), Australia: books, journals, multimedia.
* [http://www.worldwatch.org/taxonomy/term/41 World Watch Magazine] Programs: Climate and Energy, Food and Agriculture, Environment and Society
* [http://www.yesmagazine.org/ Yes! - a journal of Positive Futures: Powerful Ideas, Practical Solutions] (1996), magazine style
* [http://www.wepaste.org/jaste1.2.html Journal for Activist Science & Technology Education (JASTE)] Community-reviewed journal. Open Access. Also contains WePASTE - online discussion forum.
* [http://sprouts.aisnet.org/home.html Sprouts: Working Papers on Information Systems] (2010), Research about the ways information is generated and used in the prevailing socio-technical landscape. Reference style: APA or any of the leading IS journals.

== Open Access Journals ==
* [http://www.tjoe.org/ The Journal of Open Engineering] - MIT preprint+OA no APC. new 2016.
{|style="border:1px solid #ffa508; background-color: #D0D0FF; margin-left:.1em; margin-top:2px; -moz-border-radius:15px;" align="right" width="240px"
!<big><big>[http://liberatingresearch.org/ Liberating Research ]</big>
|-
|<center>{{#widget:YouTube|id=25ji9-52k7c}} </center>
|-

|} 
For list of open access journals
*[http://www.doaj.org/ Directory of Open Access Journals]
*[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Open_access_journals Open access journals list at Wikipedia]
*[http://www.plosone.org/home.action PLOS One]
*[http://www.openresearchnetwork.org/ORNJETR/about Open Research Network Journal of Engineering and Technology Research] is an open access journal that provides rapid publication (twice monthly).
*[http://www.jorganics.org Journal of Organics] Peer reviewed journal devoted to research on all aspects of organic food and agriculture.

==Journal Finder==
[http://journalfinder.elsevier.com/ Elsevier's Journal Finder]: Authors enter their paper title, abstract and/or keywords  and the tool creates a list of Elsevier journals that match the topic of their  article. They can then order the results based on their priorities, such as  highest impact factor or shortest editorial time. There is also an [[open access]] check box. The selection contains links to each journal's  homepage.
* [http://publication-recommender.ieee.org/pubsearch IEEE journal finder]


[[Category:MOST]]
[[Category:Publications]]
[[Category:Open access]]