This [[Stirling engine]], developed by [[Dean Kamen]]{{w|Dean Kamen}}, uses any heat source to produce [[electricity]]. This is probably done by either a [[dynamo]] or [[alternator]] fixed to the drive shaft, converting the mechanical to electrical power. It is about the size of a washing machine and produces 1 kW. At first glance, it looks like a regular Alpha-type stirling engine.

==Use in microfinancing arrangements==
Iqbal Quadir, the founder of [[Grameen Phone]]{{w|Grameen Phone}}, conducted a six-month field trial, ending in September 2005. "This is a reliable machine," he says.

Kamen’s goal is to produce machines that cost $1,000 to $2,000 each. Under the Grameen model, they would be owned by entrepreneurs (funded by [[microcredit]] from the [[Grameen Bank]]{{w|Grameen Bank}}). Quadir sees this as a better model than a single large power plant, in that it creates many entrepreneurs. 

==Uses==
===Water purification===
Kamen thinks the [[waste heat]] of this device could be used to operate his other invention, the [[Slingshot water purifier]].

==Other Kamen Stirling engines==
A different ? Stirling used by Kamen is used for transport, ie for the DEKA ReVolt. See [http://www.greencarcongress.com/2008/11/dean-kamen-unve.html here]

==Questions==
* What is the latest news on the technology and the use of it with the Grameen model?{{sp}}
::(Google News for Kamen + Stirling - http://news.google.com/news?q=kamen+stirling )
* How clean is the exhaust gas?{{sp}}
* How cost effective is it?{{sp}}
* How efficiently does it use the fuel?{{sp}}

==External links==
*[http://business2.blogs.com/business2blog/2006/02/dean_kamens_lat.html The Next Net: Dean Kamen's Newest Slingshot]
* [http://www.popsci.com/scitech/article/2009-05/army-one-mind?page=2 Schematic of the engine] 
* [http://www.dekaresearch.com/stirling.shtml Kamen's Stirling engine used for the Slingshot water purifier]

{{stub}}

[[Category:Energy]]