<table id="matrix" bgcolor="#004000" bordercolor="lime" class="proback" cellpadding="3" cellspacing="2" border="1" width="100%" >
<tr><td colspan="6"></td></tr>
<tr bgcolor="#DDF9BF">
<td colspan="6"><center><font size="+2">'''____ environmental impact of beer ____'''</font><br>
'''Estimated carbon footprint, loss of natural habitat potential, loss of plant and animal life potential and/or extinction potential from making, packaging, shipping and/or using these products or services.'''<br>-----------<br>
+ Except for CO<sub>2</sub> emissions, estimates are based on [http://ecofx.org Habitat,_Life,_Extinction_Formulas_v2] via ecofx.org. +<br>
Estimates do not include the possible long-term ecological effects of climate change and persistent toxins.<br>
Formulas use "human appropriated net primary production (HANPP)" to "CO<sub>2</sub> emissions" correlation.<br>-----------<br>
1 kg(kilogram) = 2.2 lb(pounds) &nbsp; 1 m<sup>2</sup>(square meter) = 10.8 ft<sup>2</sup>(square feet)<br>1&nbsp;km(kilometers) = 0.62 mi(miles) &nbsp; 1 liter = 0.26 gallons</center>
</td></tr>
<tr border="1"><td colspan="6"></td></tr>

<tr bgcolor="white">
	<td bgcolor="#FFFFE8" rowspan="1" alt="Product name." width="17%"><b>Beer - a 6 pack of Fat Tire Amber Ale made by New Belgium<hr>
full life cycle analysis including all materials, production, retail and end user ecofx</b><br><br>CO<sub>2</sub> from The Climate Conservancy and [http://newbelgium.com newbelgium.com]<ref name="NBB">http://www.newbelgium.com/files/shared/the-carbon-footprint-of-fat-tire-amber-ale-2008-public-dist-rfs_0.pdf</ref></td>
  <td width="17%">Some of the materials used in this product's full life cycle.<hr>multiple fuels, glass, grain, paper<br>? kg ? lb</td>
  <td width="17%">CO<sub>2</sub> released from the full life cycle of this product.<hr>3.2 kg<br>7 lb</td>
	<td width="17%">Loss of natural habitat potential from the full life cycle of this product.<hr>2.5 m2<br>26.5 ft2</td>
	<td width="17%">Loss of plant and animal life potential (in natural habitat) from the full life cycle of this product.<hr>7.7 kg<br>16.8 lb</td>
	<td width="17%">How many of this product it would take considering its full life cycle footprint to trigger 1 potential species extinction.<hr>61 million</td>
</tr>

<tr bgcolor="white">
	<td bgcolor="#FFFFE8" rowspan="1" alt="Product name." width="17%"><b>Beer - a 6 pack of Fat Tire Amber Ale made by New Belgium<hr>
product materials and manufacturing</b><br><br>CO<sub>2</sub> from The Climate Conservancy and [http://newbelgium.com newbelgium.com]<ref name="NBB"/></td>
  <td width="17%">Some of the materials used to manufacture this product.<hr>multiple fuels, glass, grain, paper<br>? kg ? lb</td>
  <td width="17%">CO<sub>2</sub> released to make this product.<hr>1.7 kg<br>3.7 lb</td>
	<td width="17%">Loss of natural habitat potential to make this product.<hr>1.3 m2<br>14.2 ft2</td>
	<td width="17%">Loss of plant and animal life potential (in natural habitat) to make this product.<hr>4.1 kg<br>9 lb</td>
	<td width="17%">How many of this product if they were made to trigger 1 potential species extinction.<hr>114 million</td>
</tr>

<tr bgcolor="white">
	<td bgcolor="#FFFFE8" rowspan="1" alt="Product name." width="17%"><b>Beer - a 6 pack of Fat Tire Amber Ale made by New Belgium<hr>
for retail refrigeration only</b><br><br>CO<sub>2</sub> from The Climate Conservancy and [http://newbelgium.com newbelgium.com]<ref name="NBB"/></td>
  <td width="17%">Refrigeration energy source.<hr>electricity<br>? kg ? lb</td>
  <td width="17%">CO<sub>2</sub> released from refrigerating this product by retail store.<hr>.83 kg<br>1.8 lb</td>
	<td width="17%">Loss of natural habitat potential from refrigerating this product by retail store.<hr>.64 m2<br>7 ft2</td>
	<td width="17%">Loss of plant and animal life potential (in natural habitat) from refrigerating this product by retail store.<hr>2 kg<br>4.38 lb</td>
	<td width="17%">How many instances of refrigerating this product by a retail store to trigger 1 potential species extinction.<hr>235 million</td>
</tr>

<tr border="1" alt="this adds a little spacing"><td colspan="6"></td></tr>
</table>

{{TOCright}}

== Matrix Summary ==
A life cycle study of one beer brand shows that the CO<sub>2</sub> emissions from a 6-pack of micro-brew beer is about 3 kilograms (6.6 pounds) -- including grain production, brewing, bottling, distribution and waste management.<ref name="NBB"/> The loss of natural habitat potential from the 6-pack of micro-brew beer is estimated to be 2.5 square meters (26 square feet).

== Notes ==
Draught beer's environmental impact can be 68% lower than bottled beer due to packaging differences.<ref>http://www.treehugger.com/files/2008/07/lca-draught-beer-vs-bottled-beer.php#ch01</ref><ref>http://www.springerlink.com/content/a981335v284251v6</ref> Home brewing can reduce the environmental impact of beer via less packaging and transportation.<ref><nowiki>http://www.simplehomebrewbeer.com/environmental-benefits-of-homebrewing-beer/</nowiki>. [https://web.archive.org/web/20090101140648/http://www.simplehomebrewbeer.com/environmental-benefits-of-homebrewing-beer/ Archived]</ref> 

Downstream emissions from distribution, retail, storage and disposal of waste can be over 45% of a bottled micro-brew beer's CO<sub>2</sub> emissions.<ref name="NBB"/>

The use of a refillable jug, reusable bottle or other reusable containers to transport draught beer from a store or a bar (where legal) can reduce the environmental impact of beer consumption (as opposed to buying pre-bottled beer).<ref><nowiki>http://www.terrapass.com/blog/posts/when-passions-c-1</nowiki>. [https://web.archive.org/web/20120213224422/http://www.terrapass.com/blog/posts/when-passions-c-1 Archived]</ref>

== References ==
<references/>

==See also==
* [[Making wine, beer and mead]]

== External links ==
[[wikipedia:Beer]]

[[Category:Environmental impact of products and services]]
[[Category:Food and agriculture]]
[[Category:Green living]]