{{MOST}}
{{MOST-RepRap}}
{{Lit}}
{{TOC_right}}
[[category: MOST literature reviews]]

=Introduction=
This literature review supports the following project: [[Life cycle analysis of distributed polymer recycling]].

== Kuczensk, Brandon, and Roland Geyer. "LCA and Recycling Policy — a Case Study in Plastic." 1 Oct. 2001. Web. 10 Oct. 2011. [http://www.lcacenter.org/LCA9/presentations/208.pdf]. ==

*11 states have bottle bills (MI included)
*producing 1 kg PET requires 206 g Natural Gas for ethylene, 588 g crude oil for xylene, Liquid oxygen, and water
*1kg diverted from land fill saves 1kg disposal +.78kg primary production
*buy back centers/source separated processors: .044MJ primary energy per 1kg PET
*curbside collection: .65-.8 MJ primary energy per 1kg PET
*materials recovery center: .38 MJ primary energy per 1kg PET
*each additional kg recycled reduced primary energy 46.2-56.3 MJ
NOTES: good diagrams/flowcharts, necessary info for CA only
<ref> Kuczensk, Brandon, and Roland Geyer. "LCA and Recycling Policy — a Case Study in Plastic." 1 Oct. 2001. Web. 10 Oct. 2011. [http://www.lcacenter.org/LCA9/presentations/208.pdf].</ref>

== Lofti, Ahmad. "Plastic / Polymer Recycling." Web. 11 Oct. 2011. [http://www.lotfi.net/recycle/plastic.html].==

*1:PET (highly recyclable)
*2:HDPE (highly recyclable)
*3:PVC (not recycled)
*4:LDPE
*5:Polypropylene (not recycled)
*6:Polystyrene (not recycled)
*7:Other/mixed (no recycling)
*usually a single re-use
*can't mix PET and PVC in recycling
*steps: collection, sorting/separating, processing, manufacturing
NOTES: outdated
<ref> Lofti, Ahmad. "Plastic / Polymer Recycling." Web. 11 Oct. 2011. [http://www.lotfi.net/recycle/plastic.html].</ref>

== The ImpEE Project: Recycling of Plastics.  The Cambridge-MIT Institute. 11 Oct 2011. [http://www-g.eng.cam.ac.uk/impee/topics/RecyclePlastics/files/Recycling%20Plastic%20v3%20PDF.pdf]==

*embodied energy analysis via input/output instead of thermo
*energy in/kg PET out
*energy in/bottles out
*LCA preformed on milk carton
*comparison of different materials (PET, glass, aluminum, steel)
*LCA of recycling PET into fleece
*chart of embodied energies and prices of polymers
*embodied energy and price of recycled material is half of virgin material (lower quality)
*"Transport does not have a great impact on the energy life cycle of this product."-slide 8
NOTES: great diagrams, equations
<ref> The ImpEE Project: Recycling of Plastics.  The Cambridge-MIT Institute. 11 Oct 2011. [http://www-g.eng.cam.ac.uk/impee/topics/RecyclePlastics/files/Recycling%20Plastic%20v3%20PDF.pdf] </ref>


==Britz, David, Yohsi Hamaoka, and Jessica Mazorson. "Recology: Value in Recycling Materials." MIT Sloan Sustainability Lab, 13 May 2010. Web. 13 Oct. 2011. [http://actionlearning.mit.edu/files/slab_files/Projects/2010/report,%20recology.pdf].==

*studied virgin material market, environmental impact, and recycling of virgin material
*used LCA databases
*materials flow and embodied energy
*energy input=energy stored product+energy stored in waste+energy released
*recycled material uses 80% less energy than virgin material
*producing 1 kg recycled PET uses 42-55 MJ/ 1kg virgin PET uses >77 MJ
NOTES:check sources 12-14
<ref name="[4]">Britz, David, Yohsi Hamaoka, and Jessica Mazorson. "Recology: Value in Recycling Materials." MIT Sloan Sustainability Lab, 13 May 2010. Web. 13 Oct. 2011. [http://actionlearning.mit.edu/files/slab_files/Projects/2010/report,%20recology.pdf].</ref>

=="Embodied Energy Coefficients." Web. 13 Oct. 2011. [http://www.victoria.ac.nz/cbpr/documents/pdfs/ee-coefficients.pdf].==

*coefficients in MJ/kg and MJ<sup>3</sup>
*ABS, HDPE,LDPE, polyester, pp, ps, polyurethane, PVC
*compares local data to worldwide data
*sourced
<ref name="[5]">"Embodied Energy Coefficients." Web. 13 Oct. 2011. [http://www.victoria.ac.nz/cbpr/documents/pdfs/ee-coefficients.pdf].</ref>

==Embodied Energy Table==

'''Table 1: Embodied Energy per kg material'''
{| class="wikitable sortable"
|-
! width="220" |Material
! width="180" |Embodied Energy (MJ/kg)<ref name="[5]"/> <ref name="[6]"> Hammond, Geoff, and Craig Jones. "Inventory of Carbon & Energy (ICE V2.0) Embodied Energy & Carbon." University of Bath. Web. 17 Oct. 2011. <http://www.bath.ac.uk/mech-eng/sert/embodied/>.</ref>
! width="240" |Embodied CO<sub>2</sub> (kg CO<sub>2</sub>/kg) <ref name="[7]"> Eco-profiles of the
European Plastics Industry. Plastic Europe. 2005. Web. 20 Oct. 2011. http://lca.plasticseurope.org/main2.htm.</ref>
! width="220" |Transportation Energy (MJ/kg) <ref name="[7]"/>
! width="220" |Notes
|-
| align="center"| ABS
| align="center"| 77.8-111
| align="center"| 3.05
| align="center"| 
| align="center"| From Franklin Associates Ltd, 1991.<ref name="[5]"/>. From Plastics Europe, 2005. <ref name="[7]"/> 
|-
| align="center"| HDPE
| align="center"| 79.7-103
| align="center"|1.57(resin)-2.02(pipe)
| align="center"| 
| align="center"| From Franklin Associates Ltd. and manufacturer. 1994. <ref name="[5]"/>
|-
| align="center"| LDPE
| align="center"| 77-103
| align="center"|1.69(resin)-2.13(film)
| align="center"| 
| align="center"| From Lawson. 1994.<ref name="[5]"/>
|-
| align="center"| Polyester
| align="center"| 53.7-58
| align="center"|
| align="center"| 
| align="center"| From American Institute of Architects, Environmental Resource Guide, 1991. <ref name="[5]"/>
|-
| align="center"| Polypropylene
| align="center"| 64-94
| align="center"| 2.97-3.93
| align="center"| 
| align="center"| From American Institute of Architects, Environmental Resource Guide, 1994. <ref name="[5]"/> From Plastics Europe, 2005. <ref name="[7]"/>
|-
| align="center"| Polystyrene 
| align="center"| 100-117
| align="center"| 2.55-3.45
| align="center"| 
| align="center"| From American Institute of Architects, Environmental Resource Guide, 1994. <ref name="[5]"/> From Plastics Europe, 2006. <refname="[7]"/>
|-
| align="center"| Polyurethane
| align="center"| 72.2-74
| align="center"| 3.48-4.06
| align="center"| 
| align="center"| From American Institute of Architects, Environmental Resource Guide and manufacturer, 1991. <ref name="[5]"/>From Plastics Europe, 2005. <refname="[7]"/>
|-
| align="center"| PVC
| align="center"| 38.6-189
| align="center"| 2.56-2.61
| align="center"| 
| align="center"| From American Institute of Architects, Environmental Resource Guide, Sheltair Scientific Ltd, and manufacturer.  Best guess is 70 MJ/kg, 1992.<ref name="[5]"/>
|-
| align="center"| PET
| align="center"| 77-90<ref name="[4]"/>
| align="center"| 2.73
| align="center"| 
| align="center"| From international journal of Life Cycle Assessment. <ref name="[4]"/>
|}

Note: CO<sub>2</sub> values are cradle to gate.

==Transportation Energy==

Variables for calculating transportation energy <ref name="[8]"> Pearce, Joshua M., Sara J. Johnson, and Gabriel B. Grant. "3D-mapping Optimization of Embodied Energy of Transportation." Resources, Conservation and Recycling 51.2 (2007): 435-53. Print. </ref>
*Distance Traveled
*Speed Traveled
*Type of Vehicle (mpg)
*Loading of Vehicle

'''Table 2: Embodied Energy of Transportation'''
{| class="wikitable sortable"
|-
! width="220" |Vehicle
! width="180" |Fuel Efficiency (ton miles/gallon)<ref name="[8]"/>
! width="240" |Embodied CO<sub>2</sub> of Transportation (lb CO<sub>2</sub>/gallon)<ref name="[8]"/>
! width="220" |Notes
|-
| align="center"| Garbage Truck 
| align="center"| 41
| align="center"| 19.56
| align="center"| 
|-
| align="center"| Airplane/Jet
| align="center"| 5 
| align="center"| 19.56
| align="center"| 
|-
| align="center"| Train
| align="center"| 100
| align="center"| 19.56
| align="center"| 
|-
| align="center"| Ship
| align="center"| 140
| align="center"| 19.56
| align="center"| 
|-
| align="center"| Passenger Vehicle 
| align="center"| 15-40 (mpg) <ref name="[9]">2011 Most and Least Fuel Efficient Vehicles. http://www.fueleconomy.gov/feg/bestworst.shtml </ref>
| align="center"| 19.56
| align="center"| 
*Fuel efficiency calculated in mpg due to low loading capactity
*Average can be taken as 31 mpg
|}

'''Best Case Scenario: Detroit, MI'''

<ref> http://www.wm.com/about/press-room/2009/20090617_WM_Opens_Detroit_Recycling_Center.pdf </ref>

'''Worst Case Scenario: Copper Harbor, MI'''

==References==

<references/>
[[Category:3D printing]]