{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Waterborne diseases 
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Lifestraw.gif
}}
==Problem being addressed==
An estimated 884 million people in the world do not have access to safe drinkable water. 1 in 5 deaths of children are due to diarrheal diseases. Sometimes water treatment at the source is not enough to prevent disease. Cleaning the water at the place of consumption is sometimes more effective.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This device is a gravity fed water purifier that functions without electricity. The water is purified through a microfiber network that filters out anything larger than 20nm.

==Relevance to developing country settings==
This device is designed for developing settings. It is built to last for 5 years without replacement parts. When sold in large quantities, it is sold at $20 each. It is built to run without the use of electricity. There have been clinical trials conducted in Zambia.

==Manufacturing==
*Manufacturer: Vestergaard Frandsen
*Manufacturer location: Lausanne, Switzerland
 
==Funding Source==
$50,000 was provided by Saatchi & Saatchi.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Clasen, T, Naranjo J, Frauchiger D, and Gerba C. (2009.) Laboratory assessment of a gravity-fed ultrafiltration water treatment device designed for household use in low-income settings." The American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, 80(5), 819-823.

===Internally generated reports===
Vestergard F. (n.d.) LifeStraw® Family – introduction. Link available [http://www.vestergaard-frandsen.com/lifestraw/lifestraw-family here].