''"Plan for resilience, aim for abundance." [https://twitter.com/_alan_chapman Alan Chapman]''

=What=

Localpedia's aim is to help people compile a list of '''questions and objective answers''' about any specific territory's '''real resources and possibilities''', in terms of '''water, food, energy and other basic systems'''.

This information would be objective like in wikipedia, but centered around questions related to appropriate technology, development, etc like in appropedia.

One defining quality of information is it could be in '''easily understood units'''. Most of us find it difficult to grasp millions of kilograms of food per year. We may find it easier to talk about grams per person and per day.

That way, anyone can '''stand firmly on real and understandable data''' to think about '''how to face crises''' or '''how to contribute to creating abundance'''.

=How=

A wiki is a practical place to start this, but it's not the most convenient way.  Extra "features" are needed to signal areas that need more questions - and questions that need rephrasing, sources, information or recalculation.  Perhaps it's a matter of using tricks already available in MediaWiki (the software that runs wikipedia and appropedia), or maybe it's better to develop specific software for this.

Localpedia is the generalisation of [[Canaripedia]].  It's currently being translated, see {{talk page}}. Once that's done, you'll be able to make a copy of the pages for your local place, flesh them out, and maybe bring back lessons learned, tips & tricks, and software development that can be applicable widely.

More details in:
* [[Localpedia project|Detailed project description]]
* '''[[Localpedia contributors|What's needed in order to contribute?]]'''
* [[Localpedia FAQ|Frequently Asked Questions]]
* [[Localpedia blog|Blog - news and development]]

If you want to contribute:
* Ask or comment about the project at [[Localpedia FAQ|frequently asked questions]].  That will help clarify why and how.
* Review or add to [[Localpedia to-do|to-do list]].
* Most important.  In each of the following '''sections''', include '''your own questions, sources and answers'''. Of course, you don't have to know the answer to ask the question. If you don't know what to ask or whether your answer is "valid", comment freely, as this is a wiki and we can improve it later. '''Be bold!'''

=Content=
(see all sections [[Localpedia in one page|in one page]] without being able to edit it):
* [[Localpedia population|Population]]
* [[Localpedia territory|Territory]]
* [[Localpedia water|Water]]
* [[Localpedia food|Food]]
* [[Localpedia energy|Energy]]
* [[Localpedia waste|Waste]]
* [[Localpedia other questions|Other questions]]

[[Category:Localpedia| ]]