Economy that emits no more [[Greenhouse Gasses]] than the eco-system can absorb and monitors the "elasticity" or margin in [[Glossary_of_sustainability_terms#C|CO2e]] of the natural system.  The [[Emission Trading System]] under the [[UNFCCC]] and put into force by the "[[Kyoto Protocol]]", created such a [[Low Greenhouse Gas Economy]].  It was heavily resisted against by second class powers in the [[fossil fuel based economy]].  The main reason for this was that these military-economic-political elite was in control of their local or regional currency printing machines and could influence to at least a large extent the availability of money.  Playing with this availability, e.g. by suddenly retracting credit lines could make competing companies have a liquidity problem and make them accept to be bought over by the allies of the military-economic-political fossil based complex.
Since 2005, the absolute power of printing money escaped from their hands as it now became possible for just about anybody to print "Low Carbon Economy money", i.e. [[CO2e-certificates]] as put forward by the rules in the [[UNFCCC]], which can be as simple as planting a tree.  A tree takes CO2e out of the atmosphere and turns it into trunk, roots and leaves and for every ton of CO2e that is thus sequestered, one receives 1 CO2e-certificate.  [[CO2e-certificates]] can be traded electronically with the speed of an email all over the planet as the Emission Trading System is signed by about just any nation as specified in the [[annex 1 and annex 2 lists of countries to the "Kyoto Protocol]]".
One strategy to avoid the entry into force of the "Low Greenhouse Gas Economy" was to add as much confusion as possible.  Hence the term "Low Carbon Economy".  This aroused resistance in just about any sector in society that was dealing with substances with carbon atoms in them, and that's just about any activity, from farmers planting crops or even trees, to companies making CO2-fire extinguishers or sparkling water, to companies making clothes, medicines, etc.   The strategy was very effective and helped to delay the entry into force from 1990 back to 2005, thus closing the door for humanity to reduce the Global Climate Destabilization back to an equivalent of destabilization equal to a zero degree average rise in global temperature, as referred to by the [[Glossary of sustainability terms#0-9|"20-20-20" term]] and the figure [[350]].