'''LXDE''' is a [[lean code]], [[open source]] desktop environment{{w|desktop environment}} for [[Linux]], Unix and related [[operating systems]]. (In simple terms, it's the part of the system that manages the user interface, i.e. menus and windows.) 

It is focused on ease of use and low resource use. Being light and fast, it:
* works well with old and lower-spec computers, such as netbooks and other small computers. 
* is a good candidate for [[ICT4D]] applications (Information and Communication Technologies for Development), where it allows the use of low-cost hardware, reduces the need for hardware upgrades, and uses less electricity.

It is available on various Linux distributions including Mandriva, Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora and openSUSE; it is default on desktop environment of Knoppix, Lubuntu and U-lite. Components of LXDE are used other systems such as CrunchBang (though less in version 10 than in previous versions). LXDE's coding philosophy<ref>[http://wiki.lxde.org/en/Design_Principles Design Principles] - extracting small sections of code rather than requiring the full library; No unnecessary daemons; Configuration via GUI whenever possible; Simple and intuitive user interface simple and intuitive; Follow the habit of most users; Shorten the startup time; Keep maximal compatibility with lower gtk+ versions (gtk+ 2.6 is preferred).</ref> leads to a modular desktop, where you can easily take the panel, terminal or other component, and use it on any Linux system with few compatibility worries.

== Resource use ==

=== Green advantage? ===

See [[Green desktop environments]]. LXDE potentially offers an advantage, but more testing needs to be carried out to prove this.

=== Memory (RAM) ===

LXDE generally uses much less memory than other popular DEs. Testing on Ubuntu showed LXDE using a modest amount less RAM than Xfce and much less than GNOME or KDE.<ref>[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_desktop_vitals&num=1 Power & Memory Usage Of GNOME, KDE, LXDE & Xfce]</ref> As the comparison was carried out with Ubuntu, it may have favored GNOME, the default Ubuntu desktop. More even-handed benchmark testing is needed.{{sp}}

== See also ==

* [[CrunchBang Linux]][http://crunchbanglinux.org/] - a distro which is Ubuntu-based (up to version 9.04) Debian-based (version 10 and higher, now in Beta). Aiming for a mid-point in ease-of use and lightness, being lighter and harder to use than LXDE, but* [[CrunchBang Linux]][http://crunchbanglinux.org/] - a distro which is Ubuntu-based (up to version 9.04) Debian-based (version 10 and higher, now in Beta). Aiming for a mid-point in ease-of use and lightness, being lighter and harder to use than LXDE, but still with a GUI and much easier than most ultra-light Linux distros, still with a GUI and much easier than most ultra-light Linux distros.

== Notes ==
<small><references/></small>

== Interwiki links ==

* [http://wiki.lxde.org/ The LXDE Wiki]
* [http://wiki.lxde.org/en/Category:Linux_Distributions Linux Distributions offering LXDE]
* [[Wikipedia:LXDE]]

== External links ==

* [http://www.lxde.org/ LXDE project homepage]

[[Category:ICT4D]]
[[Category:Lean code]]
[[Category:Linux]]
[[Category:Open source]]