You have no doubt heard of Moringa by now, but what about Malunggay? What is is and how is it similar to Moringa. Well truth be told Malunggay and Moringa Oleifera are exactly the same plant, they are just called by different names in different parts of the world.

Although moringa or more likely malunggay originated in northern India, it now exists in sub tropical climates all over the world. The are hundreds of names for the plant, but moringa and malunggay are by far the most common, so we will stick to these two.

The tree itself truly lives up to its name, "The Miracle Tree." All parts of this tree can be used for something beneficial. The bark can be stripped and used as a disinfectant. The seeds produce a very high grade oil used that can be used in cooking and other various applications. The pulp from those pressed seeds can even be used to purify water. But the real power lies in the Malunggay and Moringa Leaves!

The leaves contain massive amounts of nutritional value. They are so nutritious that they are currently given to malnourished children in Africa to eat right off the tree. The interesting thing about these leaves is that the nutritional value of them actually goes up when they are dried! The powder created from these dried leaves is quite possibly one of the worlds most beneficial supplements.

The leaves contain ounce for ounce more protein and calcium than milk, more vitamin C than oranges, more vitamin A than carrots and more iron than spinach. The also contain all the essential amino acids, are a great source of antioxidants and even contain leafy green plant protein. The leaves have been used in Indian medicine to treat over 300 ailments!

The uses of the Malunggay/  [http://moringastore.ca/ moringa tree products]for the human race have yet to even be explored. Think how many lives could be saved with a few plantation in 3rd world countries. Think how your quality of life would be improved by adding a supplement as beneficial as moringa into you diet. People from all over the world are discovering the power of Moringa daily and making it a part of their lives. Will you be next?