{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia
|Image=MamaNatalie.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
While preventative measures and treatment for postpartum hemorrhage do exist, high mortality rates still exist, often due to improper preparation and knowledge by the healthcare providers.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This is a low-tech birthing simulator. It is intended to be an educational tool for midwives to practice treating postpartum hemorrhage. The device is strapped to the instructor, who is able to control the fetal heart sounds, delivery of the placenta, baby position, uterine firmness, and volume and rate of blood flow loss.

==Designed by==
This device was invented by Laerdal, a clinical simulator product company. Laerdal has a wide network of distribution partners around the world. 
*Manufacturer location:
Laerdal has manufacturing sites in the USA, Norway and China.

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
For every product bought for use in a developed country, Laerdal will donate one for use in training program in a developing country. It is being made available for $100 on a not-for-profit basis. They have performed field testing in Ethiopia, Tanzania, and India.

==Funding Source==
Private

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Crofts JF, Winter C, and Sowter MC. 2011. Practical simulation training for maternity care – where we are and where next. BJOG 118(Supp):11-16.

Abstract available [http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1471-0528.2011.03175.x/full here].

===Other internally generated reports===
Laerdal [http://www.laerdal.com/files/software/11-10956_MamaNatalie_US_BR_v.3-786.pdf brochure].

===Externally generated reports===
Brown D. Low-tech pregnancy device might help birth attendants reduce maternal mortality [http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/07/02/AR2010070204596.html?hpid=sec-health Washington Post: 6 Jul 2010]  accessed 9 Nov 2011.

===IP and copyright===
Laerdal Medical: WIPO 1035786, as of February 2010.