{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Cardiovascular diseases
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa
|Image=Mashavu stethoscope.png
|Image Caption=Mashavu Stethoscope
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
In developing countries such as Kenya and Tanzania, pulmonary disorders are common due to poor ventilation and pollution.  Additionally, the amount of doctors in not sufficient to treat the number of patients in need.
==Detailed description of the solution==
The Mashavu stethoscope is designed to collect heart and lung sounds in an audio file, which could be sent to medical professionals in other locations for analysis and diagnosis.  It consists of a conical chest-piece attached to a microphone, which is able to transmit the data to a computer.  There, the audio is filtered and analyzed by a software, providing a numerical heartbeat and an audible sound file.
==Designed by==
*Designed by: A group of out of Penn State University has been working on this technology. 

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
The device is planned to be tested in Kenya in May 2013.

==References==

===Other internally generated reports===
* "Mashavu: BIOE Stethoscope Team." Mashavu: BIOE Stethoscope Team. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2013. Link Available [https://sites.google.com/site/mashavubioestethoscope/Home here]

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->