'''Construction materials''' are materials used for the construction of buildings.
The ecological merits of materials can be compared at [http://ecolect.net/ Ecolect] and [http://www.ecospecifier.org/ ecospecifier]. 

Many materials can be considered a “green” material until its background is revealed. Any material that has used toxic or carcinogenic chemicals in its treatment or manufacturing (such as formaldehyde{{w|formaldehyde}} in glues used in woodworking), has traveled extensively from its source or manufacturer, or has been cultivated or harvested in an unsustainable manner might not be considered green. In order for any material to be considered green, it must be resource efficient, not compromise [[indoor air quality]] or [[water conservation]], and be [[energy efficient]] (both in processing and when in use in the shelter).<ref name="ReferenceB"/> Resource efficiency can be achieved by using as much recycled content, reusable or recyclable content, materials that employ recycled or recyclable packaging, locally available material, salvaged or remanufactured material, material that employs resource efficient manufacturing, and long-lasting material as possible.<ref>[http://www.calrecycle.ca.gov/greenbuilding/Materials/ Green Building Materials: Sustainable Building.] CalRecycle. Web. 23 Oct. 2010.</ref>

==== List of some organic materials ====
{{Mergeto|Materials#List of common materials}}
{{multicol}}
*[[Adobe]]
*[[Bamboo]]
*[[Cellulose insulation]]
*[[Cob]]
*[[Composite wood]] (when made from reclaimed hardwood sawdust and reclaimed or recycled plastic)
*[[Cordwood construction|Cordwood]]
*[[Cork]]
*[[Hemp]]
{{multicol-break}}
*Insulating concrete forms{{w|Insulating concrete form}}
*Lime render{{w|Lime render}}
*Linoleum{{w|Linoleum}}{{fact}}
*[[Wood]] from [[Forest Stewardship Council]] approved sources
*Natural rubber{{w|Natural rubber}}
*Natural fiber{{w|Natural fiber}} (coir{{w|coir}}, wool{{w|wool}}, jute{{w|jute}}, etc)
*Organic cotton insulation
*Papercrete{{w|Papercrete}}
{{multicol-break}}
*[[Rammed earth]]
*Reclaimed stone
*Reclaimed brick
*Recycled metal
*Recycled concrete
*Recycled paper
*Soy-based adhesive
*Soy insulation
*[[Straw bale construction|Straw bale]]
*Structural insulated panel{{w|Structural insulated panel}}
* wood
* [[Adobe]] (including the variation called [[Super Adobe]]),
* [[Rammed earth]],
* [[Compressed earth block]],
* [[Dutch brick]],
* [[Animal]] products,
* [[Cob (building)|Cob]]
* and/or other [[Green building#Green building materials|green building materials]]
* ...

{{multicol-end}}

==List of inorganic materials==
{{Mergefrom|Green_living#List_of_some_sustainable_materials}}
* [[Concrete]] can be made using [[cement]] (regular or eco-cement<ref>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cement#CO2_emissions</ref>) or from vulcanic ash (pozzolana) -or alternatively brick dust- and hydrated lime. Waterproof concrete can be made using vulcanic ash and clay.<ref>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Types_of_concrete</ref>
* galvanized steel is waterproof, resistant to rusting, 
* stainless steel is also resistant to rust, unlike regular steel <ref>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DeLorean_DMC-12</ref>
* recyclable plastics such as PE, PP, PVC, PS, SB; PSE, ABS PMMA, PTFE, PA, PC, PUR, EP, UP and PET. ISF has made 2 documents on how respectively discarded plastics and aluminum can be salvaged and reused in developing countries.[http://www.appropedia.org/Alternative_society#cite_note-3]

References
<references/>
{{stub}}

[[Category:Construction and materials]]
[[Category:Materials processing]]