{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Mech uter.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Uterine atony, a loss of uterine muscle tone after cesarean birth, affects more than three million women each year. It can lead to potentially fatal postpartum hemorrhage, and treatment in low-resource clinical setting is often inadequate.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Mechanical Uterine Clamp applies three different levels of compression to the uterus after a cesarean section. This device is simple to use and an inexpensive alternative to uterine massage.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: This device was designed by a team of five engineering students at the University of Virginia through a course offered by Timothy Allen, an Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering.  These students are: Kimberly Everett, Vinu Ilakkuvan, Lara Wooten, Katie Youell and Kathryn Barbante. PDF available [http://www.seas.virginia.edu/pubs/impact/pdf/impact_spring09.pdf here].
*Manufacturer location: The University of Virginia, USA
 
==Funding Source==
This project received funds ($16,100) from the National Collegiate Inventors and Innovators Alliance in 2008. Link available [http://nciia.org/node/456 here].

==References==
===Other internally generated reports===
University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science. (2009, Spring). Reducing the risk of caesareans. Retrieved January 6, 2013. PDF available [http://www.seas.virginia.edu/pubs/impact/pdf/impact_spring09.pdf here].

===Externally generated reports===
National Collegiate Inventors and Innovators Alliance. (2008). Uterine atony device design team. Retrieved January 6, 2013. Link available [http://nciia.org/node/456 here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->