{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, South America
|Image=Pro bp3bto-ap f.gif
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Many women in underdeveloped countries suffer from preeclampsia. 
Preeclampsia is a condition that typically starts after the 20th week of pregnancy and is related to increased blood pressure and protein in the mother's urine (as a result of kidney problems). Preeclampsia affects the placenta, and it can affect the mother's kidney, liver, and brain. When preeclampsia causes seizures, the condition is known as eclampsia--the second leading cause of maternal death in the U.S. Preeclampsia is also a leading cause of fetal complications, which include low birth weight, premature birth, and stillbirth.

==Detailed description of the solution==
It is a blood pressure monitor. This device performs pulse arrhythmia detection. It is clinically tested, very easy to use. 
==Designed by==
*Designed by: Microlife Corporation Scientists 
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location:

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
 
==Funding Source==

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
* [http://www.appropedia.org Example External URL]

===Other internally generated reports===
===Externally generated reports===
de Greeff A, Nathan H, Stafford N, Liu B, Shennan AH. Development of an accurate oscillometric blood pressure device for low resource settings. Blood Press Monit 2008;13:342-8.
===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->