{{Photowantedsca}}

Missoula is a city in the U.S. state of [[Montana]] and is the county seat of Missoula County. It is located along the Clark Fork River near its confluences with the Bitterroot and Blackfoot Rivers in western Montana and at the convergence of five mountain ranges, thus is often described as the "hub of five valleys". In 2014, the United States Census Bureau estimated the city's population at 69,821 and the population of the Missoula Metropolitan Area at 112,684. In the 1990s, Missoula overtook Great Falls as Montana’s second‑largest city, behind Billings. Missoula is home to the University of Montana, a public research university. {{W|Missoula, Montana}}

== Sustainability initiatives ==

[http://www.umt.edu/greeningum/ Sustainable University of Montana] - [http://transitiontownmissoula.org/ Transition Missoula]

== Initiatives by topic ==

=== Climate action ===
Petroleum materials from [[Alberta]] are sometimes transported through Missoula by truck. On some of these occasions they have been blockaded by activists. <ref>http://wagingnonviolence.org/feature/indigenous-organizing-confronts-tar-sands-megaloads-montana/</ref><ref>http://www.resilience.org/print/2015-08-31/you-fly-to-the-edge-of-the-tar-sands-and-no-life</ref>. Some are also active in the movement against the [[Keystone pipeline]], which runs through eastern [[Montana]].

[http://www.missoulaclimate.org/ Climate Smart Missoula]

=== Community currencies activism ===
[http://missoulatimebank.org/ Missoula Time Bank]

=== Cycling activism ===
[http://www.adventurecycling.org/ Adventure Cycling Association] - [http://www.bikewalkmissoula.org/ Bike/Walk Alliance for Missoula] - [http://www.strans.org/freecycles.html Free Cycles] - [http://www.missoulabike.org/ Missoulians on Bicycles] - 

=== Food activism ===
[http://www.missoulacfac.org/ Community Food and Agriculture Coalition of Missoula County] - [https://cookingforpeacemissoula.wordpress.com/ Cooking for Peace Missoula] - [http://www.gardencityharvest.org/ Garden City Harvest] - [http://www.sustainablelivingsystems.org/ Sustainable Living Systems]

=== Housing ===
[http://habitatmsla.org/ Habitat for Humanity Missoula] - [http://www.homeresource.org/ Home ReSource] - [http://www.homeword.org/ HomeWorld]

=== Open spaces ===

The city has over 400 acres (160 ha) of parkland, 22 miles (35 km) of trails, and nearly 5,000 acres (2,000 ha) of conserved open-space. {{W|Missoula,_Montana#Parks and recreation}}

=== Sharing ===
[http://mudproject.org/tool-library/ MUD Tool Library]

=== Sustainable transport activism ===
[http://www.missoulainmotion.com/ Missoula in Motion] - [http://strans.org/ Missoula Institute for Sustainable Transportation]

=== Urban sustainability ===
[http://mudproject.org Missoula Urban Demonstration Project]

== Interwiki links ==

Wikipedia: [[wikipedia:Missoula, Montana|Missoula, Montana]]

== External links ==

Make it Missoula: [http://www.makeitmissoula.com/housing/green-living/ Green Living (housing)] & [http://www.makeitmissoula.com/community/going-green-and-recyling/ Going Green and Recycling]


{{scaendmenu}}
[[Category:Sustainable community action]]
[[Category:Cities in the United States]]