{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Eclampsia accounts for about 40% of maternal mortality in low resource environments. This condition is characterized by high blood pressure and heightened protein in the urine. Identifying these stages early is essential for successful treatment. However, the tools for detecting blood pressure and analyzing urine are expensive and inaccessible for women in developing countries.

==Detailed description of the solution==
Instead of testing blood pressure or urine, the momedemameter detects for edema, another indicator of pre-eclampsia and other pregnancy issues. The device is an elastic wrist or ankle band that detects swelling, starting at the 20th week of pregnancy. If the band becomes snug, the mother knows to see a doctor. This device is inexpensive, extremely easy to use, and allows women to monitor pre-eclampsia without waiting in line for checkups. 

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Virginia Commonwealth University led by Ashley Woodward

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Trials at Obstetrics Clinics at VCU Medical Center

==Funding Source==
National Institute of Health

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publications===
Pawluk, D., Burch, D., Strauss III, J. F., Peng, T., & Woodward, A. (2009). The Momedemameter: An Affordable Preeclampsia Detector For Low Resource Environments. Journal of medical devices, 3(1), 014501. Retrieved November 13 2013 from [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3307143/ here].

===Other internally generated reports===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->