[[category:MOST]]
{{MOST}}

=The Michigan Tech Open Sustainability Technology Group's Guide to Graduation=

New guidelines as of Sept 2014.
The Graduate School has established a new email address - [mailto:gradschool@mtu.edu gradschool@mtu.edu].

We will begin using this email to communicate with current students.  If you have questions about a current student that you wish to send via email, but aren't sure which staff member to address them to, feel free to email [mailto:gradschool@mtu.edu gradschool@mtu.edu].  Several staff will be monitoring the account on a daily basis.

# [http://www.MyMichiganTech.mtu.edu MyMichiganTech] has a new Degree completion timeline that shows students every item required to complete each degree they are seeking.  You can see a demo on our step-by-step tutorial: [http://blogs.mtu.edu/gradschool/2014/08/17/dct-mmt/ http://blogs.mtu.edu/<wbr></wbr>gradschool/2014/08/17/dct-mmt/]
# A full description of what is needed to complete a degree - and how to do it -  can also be found on our new web pages: [http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/timeline/ here]

----

* When nearing the end - use this site to set up a plan to guide your career: http://myidp.sciencecareers.org/


MTU uses the new “[http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/thesis-dissertation/pdfs/guide.pdf Guide to Completing a Graduate Degree and Preparing and Submitting a Dissertation, Thesis, or Report at Michigan Technological University].”

Because this Guide makes the submission process similar for all documents, and the formatting requirements are much simpler, the new requirements will be applied retroactively to all pending submissions and to all new submissions.

The web site has been updated to reflect changes for [http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/thesis-dissertation/ dissertations, theses], and [http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/report/ reports].

Important changes are summarized on our blog post, including details on new deadlines, new formatting requirements, and new forms:
[http://blogs.mtu.edu/gradschool/2012/10/23/new-guide-for-dissertations-theses-and-reports/ http://blogs.mtu.edu/gradschool/2012/10/23/new-guide-for-dissertations-theses-and-reports/]

== PhD ECE ==
====Coursework====

This is a brief overview of the PhD degree requirements for Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. 

* A minimum of 60 credits of approved coursework and research (30 credits course + 30 credits research) (30 credits beyond a Master’s Degree) is required.
* If you already have an MS: 18 classroom (non EE 6990) credits are required with a minimum of 9 credits in EE 5000-6000, and a minimum of 3 credits being 5000-level or higher from the College of Engineering, Physics, Mathematics, or Computer Science.
* If you do not have an MS: A minimum of 21 credits in EE 5000-6000 (non EE 6990), and a minimum of 6 credit 5000-level courses or higher from the College of Engineering, Physics, Mathematics, or Computer Science, is required.
* You must earn a grade of B or better in all courses.
* You must have 2 credits of research thrust area seminar course.
* You must have your advisor's approval.

====Examination====

* Pass the PhD qualifying exam
You must have an advisor before taking this exam.<br />
Your first attempt must be made by the third semester.<br />
Submit the Report on the Comprehensive Exam form.<br />
* Dissertation Research Proposal Defense:
This is an oral presentation of the dissertation proposal and an oral examination on the proposed research by the advisory committee.<br />
The proposal defense must be passed within one year of passing the PhD qualifying exam.<br />
Submit the Approval of Dissertation Proposal.<br />
* Dissertation Defense:
Make your public presentation and defense of the dissertation research.<br />
Submit the Report on Final Oral Examination.<br />

====Additional Requirements====

* Official final transcripts showing proof of your previous degrees, if not from Michigan Tech.
* Fill out and complete a Patent, Research and Proprietary Rights form.

All requirements for PhD degree can be found on Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. [http://www.mtu.edu/ece/graduate/advising/phd-requirements/]

== PhD MSE ==

'''Course work'''
* A minimum of 60 credits of approved coursework and research (30 credits beyond a Master’s Degree) is required.
* For every graduate student who wants a degree three MSE core course must be taken. They are
    1. MY 5100 - Thermodynamics and Kinetics I  (3 credits)<br />
    2. MY 5110 - Thermodynamics and Kinetics II (3 credits)<br />
    3. MY 5260 - Crystallography & Diffraction  (3 credits)<br /> 
* Students must earn a grade of B or better in all courses
* Students must have their adviser's approval
* MSE Seminar course is strongly recommended to each graduate student.

'''MSE PhD Qualification Examination'''<br />
The Materials Science and Engineering (MSE) PhD Qualifying Process will consist of a Qualifying Exam and a Comprehensive Exam.
* The Qualifying Exam is intended to allow the candidate to demonstrate depth of understanding in his/her chosen area of research, and to demonstrate the ability to identify research problems and approaches to their solution.
* The Comprehensive Examination is intended to allow the PhD candidate to demonstrate competency in the breadth of topics associated with the Materials Science and Engineering (MSE) discipline.

For detailed Q Exam requirements and process please visit [http://www.mtu.edu/materials/graduate/advising/qualifying/ PhD Qualifying Process]

=== PhD Qualifying Process Checklist ===

* Official, final transcript from previous college submission
* Complete safety Training orientation by 09/07/2012 [http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/admissions/admitted-students/orientation/#training]
* Sign and Submit the Patent Form by 09/07/2012 [http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/forms-deadlines/pdfs/PatentFormt.pdf]
* Complete the Advisor and Committee Recommendation Form 04/31/2013 [http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/forms-deadlines/pdfs/advisor-committee.pdf]
 '''Committee must comprise of;'''
  1 Three internal examiners (faculty members from MSE department) including the advisor.
  2 One external examiners (Faculty members from any other department).
* Report on Qualifying Examination 05/30/2013 [http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/forms-deadlines/pdfs/qualifying-proposal-exam.pdf]
* Report on Research Proposal Examination 05/30/2013 [http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/forms-deadlines/pdfs/qualifying-proposal-exam.pdf]
* PhD Degree schedule form [http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/forms-deadlines/pdfs/D5-Degree-Schedule.pdf]
*Petition to Enter Full-Time Research-Only Mode [http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/forms-deadlines/pdfs/ResearchOnlyMode.pdf]
For details please visit [http://www.mtu.edu/materials/graduate/advising/preparation/ Preparation of the PhD Qualifying Exam Proposal]

== Masters ECE ==
There are three plans(research (Plan A), projects (Plan B), or coursework (Plan D)) through which you can obtain a Master's degree from Electrical Engineering Department.
Choose the right plan to match your goals.

MS Plans

===='''Thesis Option (Plan A)'''====
This plan requires a research thesis prepared under the supervision of an advisor. A thesis describes a research investigation and its results. The minimum requirements are as follows:

A minimum of 30 approved credits is required
*20 credit minimum of course work
*12 credit minimum EE5000-6000 series
*9 credit maximum EE4000 series
*1 or 2 credits of thrust area seminar course
*3 credit minimum 4000 or higher level courses outside the department
*6 to 10 Research credits EE 5990
*Approval of your Advisor


===='''Report Option (Plan B)'''====
This plan requires a report describing the results of an independent study project. Of the minimum total of 30 credits, at least 24 must be earned in course work other than the project.

A minimum of 30 approved credits is required
*24 credit minimum of course work
*12 credit minimum EE5000-6000 series
*12 credit maximum EE4000 series
*1 or 2 credits of thrust area seminar course
*3 credit minimum 4000 or higher level courses outside the department
*2 to 6 project credits EE 5991
*Approval of your Advisor


===='''Coursework Option - No Oral Examination (Plan D)'''====
This plan requires the minimum of 30 credits be earned through course work. Research credits taken by students in Plan D may not be counted as course-work credits.

A minimum of 30 approved credits is required
*30 credit minimum of course work
*18 credit minimum EE5000-6000 series
*9 credit maximum EE4000 series
*Seminar not required
*3 credit minimum 4000 level courses outside the department
*Approval of your Advisor

== Masters MSE ==

====Requirements for a Master's Degree in Materials Science & Engineering [http://www.mse.mtu.edu/graduate/graduate_information_MS.html]:====
;Required Forms/Paperwork
See Thesis Option [http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/forms-deadlines/masters/]

;Credits 
:30 Total
::*10 Research Credits (MY5990 or MY6990)
::*20 Coursework Credits
::**12 Must be 5000 level or higher

;Coursework
9 Credits of required coursework:
*(3) MY5100 - Thermodynamics & Kinetics I
*(3) MY5110 - Thermodynamics & Kinetics II (Focusing on Kinetics)
*(3) MY5260 - Crystallography (Including lab)
All other credits can be in any department with permission from your Thesis Adviser 

;Thesis:
 
*[http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/thesis-dissertation/pdfs/guide.pdf New Thesis guidelines]

*For Thesis consisting of a collection of journal articles/published papers:  
**"Regardless of if it is submitted to a conference or a journal, you (or a co-author) will need to sign a copyright transfer agreement.  This agreement spells out what you can and can't do with the article after it is published.  If this agreement tells you that you can reprint the article, then that serves as your permission.  If the work is not published at all (say the conference proceeding), then there is no transfer of copyright, and no permission is needed."

*[http://blogs.mtu.edu/gradschool/2010/05/24/new-thesis-and-dissertation-procedures OLD Thesis and Dissertation Procedures]

*[http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/thesis-dissertation/pdfs/procedures.pdf Detailed : How to format your thesis]


=====For Students Entering the MSE Master's Program with a Non-MSE Degree=====
There are 5 suggested courses to introduce you to materials science [http://www.mse.mtu.edu/graduate/graduate_information_non-MSE.html]:
*Prerequisites for the suggested courses: (3) MY2100 ''(F,S,Sum)'' & (3) MY2110 ''(S)''
:'''Fall Courses'''
:*(4) MY3100 - Materials Processing I (Thermodynamics) 
:*(4) MY3200 - Materials Characterization I w/Lab

:'''Spring Courses'''
:*(4) MY3110 - Materials Processing II (Thermofluids)
:*(4) MY3210 - Materials Characterization II w/Lab
:*(3) MY3300 - Design of Microstructure 
:** Prerequisites: MY3100 & MY3200


== Research Only Mode==

[http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/policies-procedures/research-mode/ http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/policies-procedures/research-mode/]

=== Who’s eligible? ===

Students are eligible for full-time research-only mode at the start of the first semester following completion of the required milestones.

* Master’s candidates—Must complete all required courses as well as the required number of credits for their degree (usually 30).
* Doctoral candidates—Must satisfactorily complete both their qualifying and dissertation proposal exams, as well as all courses required for their degree (as applicable).


'''How do I petition?'''

Complete and submit the [http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/forms-deadlines/pdfs/ResearchOnlyMode.pdf Petition to enter full-time research-only mode form]

to the [mailto:gradadms@mtu.edu Graduate School]. It is due one week prior to the first day of classes in the semester you plan to enter research-only mode. In addition, the following forms must be submitted to the Graduate School before approval will be granted.

* Master's candidates—[http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/forms-deadlines/pdfs/ms-degree-schedule.pdf Final Degree Schedule] (M4)
* Doctoral candidates—[http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/forms-deadlines/pdfs/D5-Degree-Schedule.pdf Final Degree Schedule] (D5) and [http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/forms-deadlines/pdfs/qualifying-proposal-exam.pdf Report on Research Proposal Exam] (D6)

** Note: The doctoral candidate's home department must post all comprehensive/qualifying exam results into the candidate's Banner record.

'''What about registration and tuition rates?'''

Permission to enroll in a research-only course is granted by the Graduate School after the petition is approved.

{|
! Fall and Spring Semesters
! Summer Session
|-
| Register for 9 credits*—special research-only course**
| Register for 1 credit—regular research course***
|-
| The reduced tuition rate is equal to one-third of the normal graduate tuition rate.
| Regular tuition rates are assessed in summer.
|-
| colspan="2" | * If you enroll for less than 9 credits for fall or spring semesters, you will not be full-time for support, visa status, or loan deferral purposes.<br />** XX 5975 for MS and XX 6975 for PhD; XX is the prefix for your department (EE, MEEM…)<br />*** XX 5999 for MS and XX 6999 for PhD; XX is the prefix for your department (EE, MEEM…)
|}

'''How can I register for an additional course while in research-only mode?'''

You can register for an additional course while in research-only mode.  You must

* Submit a [http://www.mtu.edu/gradschool/administration/academics/forms-deadlines/pdfs/ROM-overload.pdf course overload request form]
* Receive approval of your request
* Register for nine-credits of the appropriate research-only mode course AND the course you wish to take

Tuition will be billed at the full, regular rate for the extra credits.