{{MOST}}
[[Category:MOST]]

Please find a list of courses below that can contribute to research excellence in the Michigan Tech Open Sustainability Technology Group:

==Undergrad Courses ==
* CE 4050 - Green Building Design: An overview of practice for designing and constructing sustainable building following Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) guidelines. Intensive two week class will include hands on practice with LEED, energy modeling, and an exploration of sustainable construction.
* CMG 4800 - Sustainable Construction: An introduction to the philosophy and practice of sustainable building construction with emphasis on underlying socio-environmental philosophies, sustainable directed building technologies and materials, and case studies of contemporary green buildings to culminate in a simple sustainable design project.
* EC 4640 - Natural Resource Economics: Studies the economics of nonrenewable resources (energy and minerals) and renewable resources (water, fisheries, forests and species).  Discusses the economics of land use change, macroeconomic topics such as economic growth, sustainability and green accounting.
* EE 4000 - Undergraduate Research  with [[User:J.M.Pearce|Dr. Pearce]]
* ENG 3530 - Undergraduate Colloquium in Sustainability: Readings and speakers are used to teach concepts of sustainable development and global sustainability. Specific topics are derived from the industrialized and developing world.
* ENG 4510 - Sustainable Futures I: Covers introductory and intermediate concepts of Sustainable Development.  Explores methods/tools for assessing sustainability (economic, environmental, societal impacts) of current and emerging industrial technologies.  Explores relationships between government policies and markets for introducing sustainable technologies into national economies and corporations.
* ENVE 4506 - Application of Sustainability Principles & Environmental Regulations to Engineering Practice: Study of sustainability, federal and state regulations and policies that govern solid and hazardous waste management, environmental risk of toxic chemicals, life cycle assessment, and green engineering.
* ENVE 4512 - Green Engineering Design for Sustainability: Challenges to sustainability, the role of engineering design in achieving sustainability, the current approach to engineering design (process design, material selection and energy consumption) in the context of infrastructure systems, the principles and application of green engineering.
* FW 3313 - Sustainability Science, Policy, and Assessment: Foundational scientific concepts (dynamic systems and catastrophe theory) as applied to socioecological systems. Use of indicators and indices to track progress towards sustainability goals. Review of local, national, and global sustainability policies to avoid catastrophes and guide sustainable development.
* MEEM 4685 - Env Resp Design & Manuf: Examines the impact of engineering and design/manufacturing, decisions on the environment. Topics include sustainability; energy and material flows;  risk assessment; life cycles, manufacturing process waste streams, and product design issues, including disassembly  and post-use product handling and techniques for pollution prevention.
* MGT 4800 - Ecological Sustainability and Organizations: Examines the problems and solutions associated with  creating and maintaining ecologically sustainable  organizations (primarily businesses). Builds an ethical  framework using concepts of ecological identity and place  and examines the principles of ecological economics and  sustainable development.
* [[MY3701]] Semiconductors by [[User:J.M.Pearce|Dr. Pearce]]
* MY 4190 - Environmental Engineering for Materials Processing Industries: Assessment and analysis of environmental impacts from materials processing industries. Regulations, permits, and industrial practices for monitoring and solving air, water, and solid environmental issues. [[Pollution prevention]]. [[Life cycle analysis]]. Material flow analysis.
* MY 4990 - Undergraduate Research with [[User:J.M.Pearce|Dr. Pearce]]

==Graduate Courses ==
* From here out -- those that must take a Responsible Conduct of Research Training course should take UN0500. The UN0500 course is a fee (nominal) only course and does not have any credits associated with it other than fulfilling a requirement for graduation for Responsible Conduct of Research Training. All of the other options are more time consuming and involve over $1000 course fee.

=== Technical Courses ===

====Recommended Courses for Electrical and Computer Engineering students in MOST group====

* EE 5430 - Electronic Materials - A study of the physical principles, operational characteristics, models, and basic applications of selected solid-state devices. (3 credits)
* EE 5470 - Semiconductor Fabrication - Graduate level introduction to the science and engineering of semiconductor device fabrication (highly recommended). (3 credits)
* EE 5471 - Microfabrication Laboratory - A laboratory experience in which the student fabricates micro- and non-meter devices. This course is intended for graduate students conducting experimental research in Electrical Engineering, Physics, Materials Science and Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Chemistry, or Chemical Engineering. Mandatory basic laboratory safety training for use of the Microfabrication Facility (MFF) is conducted in this course. (highly recommended) (2 credits)
* EE 5460 - Solid State Devices - A study of the physical principles, operational characteristics and models and basic applications of solid state devices such as p-n junctions, metal- semiconductor junctions and transistors. (3 credits)
* EE 5900 - Special Topics in Electrical Engineering - check with Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering every semester for course details. (variable upto 5) -- do with Dr. Pearce
* EE 5480 - Advanced MEMS - This course will cover advanced topics dealing with MEIXIS technologies, transduction mechanisms, and microfabricated sensors and actuators and is a continuation of EE4240/MY4240 (4 credits)
* EE 5440 - Laser Types, Laser Design, Modeling Techniques, and Nonlinear Optics - Survey of laser types and analysis of the common physical and engineering principles, including energy states, inversion, gain, and broadening mechanisms from a quantum mechanical perspective (3 credits).
* EE 5992 - Practical Experience in Electrical Engineering - A collaboration with industry on some acceptable electrical engineering task and preparation of a report (variable to 4.0; May be repeated; Graded Pass/Fail Only) - Do with MOST group industry partners

----
potential non-ECE electives
* PH 5410 - Quantum Mechanics
* PH 5320 - Mathematical Physics

====Recommended Seminar Courses for Electrical and Computer Engineering students in MOST group====

* EE 5940 - Electrophysics Seminar - Mandatory for PhD students (1 credit, can be taken twice for two semester to complete 2 credit requirements for PhD degree)

----
====Recommended Courses for Material Science and Engineering students in MOST group [https://www.banweb.mtu.edu/pls/owa/studev.stu_ctg_utils.p_display_class_facbio?ps_department=MY&PS_STYLE_DEPT=materials&ps_level=5000&ps_faculty=all]====
'''MSE Core Courses'''
* MY 5100 - Thermodynamics and Kinetics I - Solution thermodynamics and application to phase equilibria. Driving force for phase transformations. Chemical thermodynamics applied to materials processing. Corrosion and oxidation of metals. Applications to engineering situations. (3 credits)
* MY 5110 - Thermodynamics and Kinetics II - The kinetics of liquid-to-solid and solid-to-solid phase transformations. Diffusion-controlled phase transformations, including nucleation, growth, coarsening, spinodal decomposition, eutectic and eutectoid transformations, cellular transformations, and massive transformations. Martensitic transformations. (3 credits)
* MY 5260 - Crystallography & Diffraction - Crystallographic concepts and diffraction analyses in materials science. (3 credits)
'''MSE courses for Ph.D Qualification Exam'''
* MY 5100 - Thermodynamics and Kinetics I - Solution thermodynamics and application to phase equilibria. Driving force for phase transformations. Chemical thermodynamics applied to materials processing. Corrosion and oxidation of metals. Applications to engineering situations. (3 credits)
* MY 5110 - Thermodynamics and Kinetics II - The kinetics of liquid-to-solid and solid-to-solid phase transformations. Diffusion-controlled phase transformations, including nucleation, growth, coarsening, spinodal decomposition, eutectic and eutectoid transformations, cellular transformations, and massive transformations. Martensitic transformations. (3 credits)
* MY 5260 - Crystallography & Diffraction - Crystallographic concepts and diffraction analysis in materials science. (3 credits)
* MY 5400 - Mechanical Behavior of Materials - Elasticity and plasticity in solids. Dislocation interactions and strengthening mechanisms. High temperature deformation. Low and high temperature material forming operations. Fracture processes in materials. (3 credits)
* MY 5470 - Semiconductor Fabrication - Graduate level introduction to the science and engineering of semiconductor device fabrication. (3 credits)
* MY 4130 - Principles of Metal Casting - Principles of metal casting, including melting practice, casting design, mold design, heat transfer and solidification, fluid flow and gating design. Introduction to computer simulation techniques for mold filling, solidification, and development of residual stress. Structure-property relations in cast metals. Recycling and environmental issues of the cast metals industry. (3 credits)
* MY 2100 - Introduction to Materials Science and Engineering - Introduction to the structure, processing, properties, and performance of engineering materials, including metals, polymers, glasses, ceramics, and composites. Presents case studies covering selection of materials, component design, and analysis of component failures. (3 credits)

'''MSE Courses for Research'''
* MY 5430 - Electronic Materials - A study of the physical principles, operational characteristics, models, and basic applications of selected solid-state devices. (3 credits)
* MY 5470 - Semiconductor Fabrication - Graduate level introduction to the science and engineering of semiconductor device fabrication (highly recommended). (3 credits)
* My 5471 Microfabrication Laboratory- access to clean room
* MY 5200 - Advanced Scanning Electron Microscopy - Basic design and operating principles of scanning electron microscope (SEM) with discussions on interactions of electrons with solids and resulting signal production, for analysis of heterogeneous materials using X-ray microanalysis, and applications to surface science. Includes practical training on advanced operation of SEM and FE-SEM (FE=field emission)* instruments with an emphasis on the production of high resolution images and quantitative X-ray analysis of specimen composition based on real and virtual standards. (3 credits)
* MY 5250 - Transmission Electron Microscopy - Practical aspects of materials characterization by transmission electron microscopy. (3 credits)
* MY 5260 - Crystallography & Diffraction - Crystallographic concepts and diffraction analysis in materials science. (3 credits)
* MY 5490 - Solar Photovoltaic Science and Engineering - Solar photovoltaic materials, the device physics of photovoltaic cells and practical applications of solar electric systems engineering. (3 credits)
* MY 5900 - Graduate Seminar - Graduate student presentations at departmental seminars. (1 credits)

==Graduate Courses in Technical Areas Related to Photovoltaic Materials/Device/Systems Engineering==
*
*

==Graduate Courses in Applied Sustainability ==
* Advanced Seminar in Energy and Climate Policy: SS6100
*

== Related Programs, Minors, etc. ==
*