{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Physical disabilities 
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia
|Image=RoughTerrain.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Standard 4-wheel wheelchairs are effective for flat surfaces and can be manufactured inexpensively, but are not ideal for rural or rough terrain and are difficult to maneuver. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Motivation Rough Terrain Wheelchair is a 3-wheel base chair, with two large wheels in the back, and one large rubber castor wheel in front. The frame is built mostly of steel with aluminum components. The seat cushion has a water-resistant cover and is contoured for pressure-reduction. It can be cut to most aptly fit the individual user.

==Relevance to developing country settings==
This device has been designed specifically for use in rural and low-resource settings. It has been clinically tested and locally produced in Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Cambodia and Afghanistan. Graduates of the Wheelchair 
Technologists Training Course at TATCOT in Tanzania are trained to produce this wheelchair and go on to manufacture them in Africa.

==Manufacturing==
*Manufacturer: Motivation UK
*Manufacturer location: Backwell, Bristol BS48 4AQ, United Kingdom
 
==Funding Source==
Motivation is supported by charitable donations and community-level fundraising, as well as corporate partnerships.

==References==
===Internally generated reports===
Motivation. (2011, July 17). Product Summary. Link available [http://www.motivation.org.uk/documents/WM3-01%20Summary%20v5%20NRS110617 here].

===Externally generated reports===
Constantine D, Sheldon, S. (Ed.) & Jacobs, N (Ed). (2006, November 6-11). Specific designs: Motivation. In Report of a Consensus Conference on Wheelchairs for Developing Countries (pp. 160-162).  PDF available [http://www.who.int/disabilities/technology/Wheelchair%20Consensus%20Conference%20Report_Jan08.pdf here].