==Introduction==
The scope of the Multitude Project is to drive the multitude social movement. In other words, we try to understand how the new technology is changing the power structure in modern societies, we build a new vision for a brighter future, and we propose a path towards this future, whereby the potential introduced by the new technology is actualized to the advantage of the multitude.
We believe strongly in the power of the people. The society we live in belongs to us and must be shaped to include the needs of the great majority and to protect the rights of minorities. Change is clearly on the way, in the natural direction of the emancipation of masses, a trend which can be clearly recognized throughout history. Major institutions will be greatly transformed in the near future due to immense pressure mainly induced by rapid technological advancements. Our goal is to predict some of these changes and to inform both sides, the population as well as the ruling class of the potential dangers, hoping to channel the change into a peaceful, incremental and constructive revolution. Along with the aforementioned exploratory and speculative activities, we also propose new methods and tools, to help individuals and groups all around the world in their daily struggle against injustice and economical inequality.

[http://multitudeproject.blogspot.com/2010/10/happy-birthday-multitude-project.html History of Multitude Project]

=Important creations of Multitude Project=
* [https://sites.google.com/site/multitudeinnovation/home/discovery-network Discovery Network]: an open collaborative network capable of putting an idea on the market in the form of a material good or service 
* [https://sites.google.com/site/multitude2008/Home/economical-alternatives/the-discovery-network/dn-infrastructure Massive Collaboration Infrastructure]: an example of a free and modular infrastructure for massive collaboration and coordination. 
* [https://sites.google.com/site/multitude2008/Home/organize-efficient-boycott-campaigns Viral Labeling]: a new boycott tactic
* [https://sites.google.com/site/multitude2008/Home/home-2-1/the-boomerang The Boomerang]: A new method to help individual employees fight employment injustice. 
* [https://sites.google.com/site/multitude2008/Home/towards-leaderless-social-mass-movements/pre-programmed-mass-movements Preprogrammed mass movements]: new tactics in fighting for human rights

=Projects Proposed= 
* [https://sites.google.com/site/multitude2008/Home/home-2-1/what-is-this-about Improve employment conditions: the repository website project]
* [https://sites.google.com/site/multitudemoonproject/ The Multitude Moon Project]


=Links=
* [https://sites.google.com/site/multitude2008/ Homepage]
* [http://www.example.com Blog]


[[Category:Organizations]]