{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Road traffic accidents 
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa
|Image=Nambiamb.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Villages in Namibia and other parts of Sub-Saharan Africa are often long distances from clinics and hospitals. There is an immense need for emergency medical transportation that is cost effective, but still able to quickly transport patients in need of emergency care.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The prototyping phase has produced two different bicycle ambulance devices. The first is a large ambulance that has a removable stretcher. The second is much smaller with a fixed-angle stretcher that is also removable. Both are affixed to the back of a bicycle. The group for this project, Bicycling Empowerment Network (BEN) Namibia, is a not-for-profit company that is working with partners to determine which style is most appropriate for their application.

==Relevance to developing country settings==
This device is designed for use in developing settings such as Sub-Saharan Africa, specifically Namibia.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Bicycling Empowerment Network (BEN) Namibia. 
*Manufacturer location: South Africa. Michael Linke is the Managing Director.
 
==Funding Source==
This device receives philanthropic funding through Design for Development.

==References==
===Internally generated reports===
"Bike Ambulance Project Launched in Namibia." (Sep 2007). Design for Development.  Link available [http://www.designfordevelopment.org/news/20070901.html here].