{{Template:Are You Ready? An In-depth Guide to Citizen Preparedness}}

==Natural Hazards==
* Natural Hazards Section 2.1 - 2.5 ([http://www.fema.gov/pdf/areyouready/natural_hazards_1.pdf PDF] 1.5MB)
* Natural Hazards Section 2.6 - 2.12 ([http://www.fema.gov/pdf/areyouready/natural_hazards_2.pdf PDF] 4.3MB)

Part 2 includes information about many types of natural hazards. Natural hazards are natural events that threaten lives, property, and other assets. Often, natural hazards can be predicted. They tend to occur repeatedly in the same geographical locations because they are related to weather patterns or physical characteristics of an area.

Natural hazards such as flood, fire, earthquake, tornado, and windstorms affect thousands of people every year. We need to know what our risks are from natural hazards and take sensible precautions to protect ourselves, our families, and our communities.

Use Part 2 to learn about the hazards that pose a risk to you. Include the pertinent information in your family disaster plan. Specific content on each hazard consists of the characteristics of that hazard, terms associated with the hazard, measures that can be taken beforehand to avoid or lessen the impact of these events, and what individuals need to do during and after the event to protect themselves.

'''When you complete Part 2, you will be able to:'''
* Know important terms.
* Take protective measures for natural hazards.
* Identify resources for more information about natural hazards.

'''In This Section'''
* [http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/flood.shtm Floods]
* <div>[http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/tornadoes.shtm Tornadoes]</div>
* [http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/hurricanes.shtm Hurricanes]
* [http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/thunderstorms.shtm Thunderstorms and Lightning]
* [http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/winter.shtm Winter Storms and Extreme Cold]
* <div>[http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/heat.shtm Extreme Heat]</div>
* [http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/earthquakes.shtm Earthquakes]
* [http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/volcanoes.shtm Volcanoes]
* [http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/landslide.shtm Landslide and Debris Flow (Mudslide)]
* [http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/tsunamis.shtm Tsunamis]
* [http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/fire.shtm Fires]
* [http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/wildfires.shtm Wildfires]

Download Plug-in
Some of the links on this page require a plug-in to view them. Links to the plug-ins are available below.
[http://www.fema.gov/goodbye/goodbye.jsp?url=http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/alternate.html 
Last Modified: Wednesday, 11-Aug-2010 12:25:19 EDT
* [http://www.fema.gov/index.shtm Home]
* [http://www.fema.gov/about/contact/index.shtm Contact Us]
* [http://www.fema.gov/esp/index.shtm Español]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/privacy.shtm Privacy Policy]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/index.shtm Important Notices]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/accessibility.shtm Accessibility]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/plugins.shtm Download Plug-ins]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/foia.shtm FOIA]
* [http://www.fema.gov/oer/eeo_data_excel.shtm No FEAR Act Data]
* [http://www.usa.gov/ USA.gov]
* [http://www.dhs.gov/ DHS]
* The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government Web sites, companies or application
Federal Emergency Management Agency
U.S. Department of Homeland Security
500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472
External Affairs: (202) 646-4600
[http://www.disasterassistance.gov/ 
(800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-7585
[http://www.fema.gov/assistance/index.shtm 3 Step Guide for Assistance]
[[Category:Are You Ready? An In-depth Guide to Citizen Preparedness]]