{{dortmund forest conflict header}}
Mikko (Okkim Babii), Markus (Markus Darkward NOW Walder Qarnac), Annette 
13.04.2010

* Saamin Metsä 
* Suomin Metsä
*http://www.metla.fi/pp/mhyt/ppoverview.htm
* Karhun Metsä
* Puhun Metsä


* Forest 
** in its own right

*http://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boreaalinen_vyöhyke
*http://www.metla.fi/hanke/3165/index.htm


** as cultural heimat
** as livelihood

* Forest practises differ betwixt Nordic countries

* Ways of managing the forest as a nature reserve

e.g. pine trees in all reserves - 50s way; glades with a few bushes for insects, as seen today so in UK English Nature cut down protected trees even though legislation said they have a statutory duty to protect the trees

* Land management
** nature
** private "farm"
* state preserve
** who owns the forest?
** commoner rights
** Allmansright

* Forest versus Non-forest 
c/f Gilgamesh - now "non-forest land" (see What a Way to Go - The End of an Empire)
sustainable forest dwelling and reforestation - destroys / changes our civilization (civilization predicated on forest cleared for progress).

CONFLICT - Nuclear justified by forestry industry according to Greens:

Finnish Government gave out proposal on building two more nuclear reactors




Dear Greens,

As some of you already know, the Finnish Government gave out a proposal on
building two more nuclear reactors last Wednesday. Please, find below a
short update on the situation.

Last Wednesday, Minister of Economic Affairs Mauri Pekkarinen of the Centre
Party gave out his proposal on the construction of two more commercial
nuclear reactors in Finland. The result was expected based on the fact that
the Government was divided on how many, of any, new reactors should be
built. The Finnish Greens proposed zero new reactors, the National Coalition
Party wanted three, and the Centre Party and the Swedish People's Party were
somewhere in between. The Government will officially vote on the proposal in
a few weeks but it's clear that only the two Green Ministers Anni Sinnemäki
and Tuija Brax will vote against it.

The Parliament will start handling the Government's proposal in a couple of
weeks but it will probably take months before the final decision will be
made. We will now do everything we can to get the proposal dismissed in the
parliamentary handling. We have some hope of succeeding in this because the
majority of Finns is against nuclear energy and as the parliamentary
elections are getting closer (taking place in April 2011), the current MPs
must start taking the public opinion into account. All the parties, except
the Coalition Party, are divided on the issue and there are many MPs who
haven't made their mind yet.

We think that the Mr Pekkarinen's proposal is based on an overestimation of
the future need of electricity and ignores all the energy saving and energy
efficiency measures that have already been agreed. These unrealistic figures
are supplied by, for instance, the Finnish forest industry even if its
restructuring has led to significant cuts in the energy consumption.

Before the nuclear reactor proposal, the government parties agreed on a
package of measures to promote renewable energy. The Finnish Greens were
actively contributing in the packed and we are happy about the result.
However, there is a big risk that building new nuclear reactors will prevent
the renewable sector from growing as fast as it could. Constructing more
nuclear reactors would be a major mistake in this situation. Mr Pekkarinen's
proposal fails to seize the opportunity of putting all the efforts to the
new technology and the fast-growing renewable energy business. If the
proposal becomes reality, it means that Finland will become nuclear energy
exporter.

Currently, there are five nuclear reactors in operation in Finland and one,
the sadly famous Olkiluoto 3, under construction. The Olkiluoto 3
construction site has suffered from many delays and security problems. It
will not be producing any energy for years which goes against what was
initially promised. The Finnish Greens are amazed about how other parties
can support building more reactors while Olkiluoto 3, which was supposed to
cover a big part of Finland's emission reduction targets, increase energy
self-sufficiency and maintain high employment, hasn't produced any energy so
far.

In 2002, the Finnish Greens walked out of the Government after the decision
on building Olkiluoto 3 was taken by the Parliament. This time the big
question after Mr Pekkarinen gave out his proposal has been: Are the Greens
going to walk out of the Government this time? Now, we have decided not to
do that because we would risk our possibility to influence in the government
policy during its last year in power. As we saw last time, walking out didn'
t prevent the Government from giving the permission to Olkiluoto 3. It was
clear already in 2007, when the current Government Programme was written,
that the Greens wouldn't support any plans to build new reactors and other
parties in the Government accepted this.

The Greens/EFA press release:
http://www.greens-efa.org/cms/pressreleases/dok/337/337167.nuclear_energy@en
.htm
The Finnish Government press release:
http://www.tem.fi/?89521_m=98874
<http://www.tem.fi/?89521_m=98874&l=en&s=2471> &l=en&s=2471

Best regards,
Henna Hakkarainen

[[Category:Dortmund 2010 Forest Conflict]]