{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, South America
|Image=NBM200.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Post-Partum hemorrhage is the cause for 8% of direct pregnancy-related deaths in industrialized countries and 25% of maternal deaths in the developing world. In trauma patients, hemorrhagic shock is the second most frequent cause of death. 
==Detailed description of the solution==
This device is a low signal oximetry sensor that uses occlusion spectroscopy. Pressure is applied by a sensor around the finger, which obstructs blood flow. An optical signal is measured with a blood specific high signal to noise ratio. Therefore this device allows for accurate oximetry measurements even in times of low perfusion. It can measure glucose and hemoglobin levels as well as pulse rate. 

==Designed by==
*Designed and manufactured by: OriSense, located in Israel. 

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
It was tested through multi center trials in cities across Europe and U.S. 

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
* [http://www.appropedia.org Example External URL]

===Other internally generated reports===
===Externally generated reports===
Pulse oximetry. Fearnley S.J. (1995). Update in Anaesthesia Issue 5, article. 

Pulse oximetry. Jubran A. (1999). Critical Care 3: R11-R17
Is Hypoxia common despite oxygen treatment in the Acute Medical Ward? Dhar R, Harrison RN, Snashall PD. (2006) Internet Journal of Medical update 1(2).