{{MOST}}
{{Lit}}
[[Category:MOST literature reviews]]

*[www.hach.com/asset-get.download-en.jsa?code=61792 TURBIDITY SCIENCE Technical Information Series—Booklet No. 11 By Michael J. Sadar (Hach 1998)]
**Definition of turbidity
**Explanation of several measurement methods

*[http://water.usgs.gov/osw/techniques/TSS/ZieglerT.pdf Andrew C. Ziegler, Issues related to use of turbidity measurements as a surrogate for suspended sediment. Turbidity and Other Sediment Surrogates Workshop, April 30 – May 2, 2002, Reno, NV at http://water.usgs.gov/osw/techniques/TSS/ZieglerT.pdf]
** Overview of requirements according to several standards
** List of problems which should be solved to make nephalometry produce comparable results.
** Very relevant.

*[http://rsi.aip.org/resource/1/rsinak/v60/i9/p3051_s1 Nash, R. J. & Fisch, M. R. A computer‐controlled turbidity apparatus. Review of Scientific Instruments 60, 3051–3054 (1989).]
**I_t = I_0e^{-(α+τ)l}
**We're looking for τ.
**Aparatus for measuring turbidity as function of temperature; includes oven to place sample in.  Claims 0.001/mm accuracy and 0.5% precision.
**They measure transmitted light and assume no absorbtion; use a laser of polarized light with beam splitter.
**Use chopper to measure ac instead of dc, claim order of magnitude better long-term stability from it.
**Much improvement from simultaneous reference and measurement beam.

*[http://proceedings.aip.org/resource/2/apcpcs/914/1/419_1 Development of a Precise and in Situ Turbidity Measurement System | Browse - AIP Conference Proceedings. at <http://proceedings.aip.org/resource/2/apcpcs/914/1/419_1?isAuthorized=no>]
**Can't get the article so far.

*[http://rsi.aip.org/resource/1/rsinak/v48/i5/p528_s1 Basano, L., Ottonello, P. & Papa, L. LED marine beam transmittance meter. Review of Scientific Instruments 48, 528–530 (1977).]
**Comparable to our stuff, but analog.
**2% accuracy claimed.

*[http://jcp.aip.org/resource/1/jcpsa6/v22/i1/p147_s1 Goring, D. A. I. & Napier, P. G. Light Scattering Determination of the Absolute Turbidity of Water. The Journal of Chemical Physics 22, 147–147 (1954).]
**Report of some measurements; low-NTU values needs 90° measurement, not transmission.

*[http://proceedings.aip.org/resource/2/apcpcs/708/1/771_1 Light Transmittance of Solid Polymeric Film including Spherulites | Browse - AIP Conference Proceedings. at <http://proceedings.aip.org/resource/2/apcpcs/708/1/771_1?isAuthorized=no>]
**Not available at this moment.

*[http://jcp.aip.org/resource/1/jcpsa6/v22/i10/p1778_s2 Fessenden, R. W. & Stein, R. S. On the Absolute Turbidity of Water. The Journal of Chemical Physics 22, 1778–1779 (1954).]
**Another measurement report.

*[http://rsi.aip.org/resource/1/rsinak/v33/i11/p1256_s1 Hefele, J. R., Lundberg, J. L. & Salovey, R. Simple Ratio Photometer. Review of Scientific Instruments 33, 1256–1258 (1962).]
**Analog instrument using photomultipliers and a mercury lamp.
**Taking a reference while measuring (instead of before or after) allows for a less stable light source.

*[http://rsi.aip.org/resource/1/rsinak/v13/i5/p229_s1 Krebs, R. P., Perkins, P., Tytell, A. A. & Kersten, H. A Turbidity Comparator. Review of Scientific Instruments 13, 229–232 (1942).]
**Article from 1942; old aparatus, old electronics setup; not really useful.

*[http://rsi.aip.org/resource/1/rsinak/v28/i2/p129_s1 Wright, W. F. Comparison Type Nephelometer. Review of Scientific Instruments 28, 129–134 (1957).]
**Measure transmitted and scattered light with an integrating sphere each, and direct intensity, all three at once.
**Polarized, old style (1952), not really useful.

*[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0038092X0600291X Mavromatakis, F. & Franghiadakis, Y. Direct and indirect determination of the Linke turbidity coefficient. Solar Energy 81, 896–903 (2007).]
**Not relevant for us; it's about air turbidity.

*[http://jcp.aip.org/resource/1/jcpsa6/v19/i6/p803_s3 Bueche, F., Debye, P. & Cashin, W. M. Expressions for Turbidities. The Journal of Chemical Physics 19, 803–804 (1951).]
**Note how to compute turbidity with only tabulated functions.  Irrelevant now we have computers.

*[http://jcp.aip.org/resource/1/jcpsa6/v65/i7/p2913_s1 Inverted turbidity versus concentration dependence for aqueous polynucleotide–protein mixtures: Visible turbidity at low concentrations | Browse - Journal of Chemical Physics. at <http://jcp.aip.org/resource/1/jcpsa6/v65/i7/p2913_s1?isAuthorized=no>]
**Not about measurement method.

*[http://rsi.aip.org/resource/1/rsinak/v53/i1/p105_s1 Simple reusable hermetically‐sealed spectrophotometer cuvette for turbidity studies near binary liquid critical points | Rev. Sci. Instrum. - Review of Scientific Instruments. at <http://rsi.aip.org/resource/1/rsinak/v53/i1/p105_s1?isAuthorized=no>]
**Cuvettes for measurements that take long (months).
**Probably not relevant for us.