{{777}}{{TRIZ-3D}}[[category:4777 TRIZ 3D printers]]

[[User:Kev Man|Kev Man]] ([[User talk:Kev Man|talk]]) 07:33, 1 December 2015 (PST) 

[[User:Tmjohnst|Tmjohnst]] ([[User talk:Tmjohnst|talk]]) 07:37, 1 December 2015 (PST)

[[User:Ztverran|Ztverran]] ([[User talk:Ztverran|talk]]) 07:51, 1 December 2016 (PST)

== Ideas to improve 3d printer (Counterweight): ==

# '''Use Mesh design for end effector to reduce weight while maintaining structural integrity'''
# '''Enhance material availability: Make structures out of particle board to reduce weight and use any available wood''' 
# Reduce Parts: End effector has helicopter style top to suspend instead of metal bars
# Reduce cost-printer:  Mesh design for all 3d printed parts and structures to use less material
# Reduce cost-material: Inject with gas to expand volume(more surface area for less plastic)
# Easier to assemble : attach helium balloons to top so cannot drop and easier to maneuver to fix/build
# '''Use carbon fiber frame to decrease weight.'''
# Use lighter motors to decrease weight.
# Add flat steel plate to base to decrease vibration somewhat.
# Modify end effector to only mount the hot end (alternative material to take care of heat)
# Add vibration reducers (similar to hunting bows) to lower rod vibration and thus the rod can be made of a lighter material.
# Use smaller motors to decrease weight.
# Use less robust board to decrease weight slightly.
# Use a combination stepper driver and computer to decrease overall weight (combine melzi and BBBlack)
# '''Use microphones to detect mechanical click to reduce wiring to leveling switches.'''
# Combine heated bed with the frame to reduce weight.
# Add heating to the whole frame to omit heated bed somehow (circuitry needs to be modified).
# Combine frame with vertical beams to reduce weight - or omit vertical columns entirely like on some cartesian printers.
# Extrude with a through-the-center stepper to decrease parts used in extrusion.
# Omit top doughnut entirely - vibration introduced but weight decreased.
# Use carbon fiber rods instead of aluminum to decrease weight.
# Combine extruder and hot end into a plastic pushing monster to decrease metal and mechanical parts - momentum is increased and accuracy falls.
# '''Use more snap-together parts to decrease bolts and nuts - less metal, less weight (slightly).'''
# Print with a smaller extruder motor to decrease weight.
# Use shorter linear bearings to slightly decrease weight.
# Less infill for parts that don't need it
# '''Different infill: lighter, stronger infill material'''
# '''Use different material for structure of printer: some sort of light, hollow, plastic tubing'''
# Change guide rods to carbon fiber
# Printed parts of printer with less infill
# '''Make everything out of carbon fiber'''
# Drill holes in support material
# Print with lighter material
# Plastic hardware
# Build a smaller printer
# Print a smaller part, sections if needed
# Use less bed adhesion (glue) or use blue painters tape
# Make part hollow and put hydrogen or helium into part
# Make inside of part a vacuum
# Move printer to moon
# Attach helium balloons to top of printer