{{777}}
{{TRIZ-3D}}
[[category:4777 TRIZ 3D printers]]
#'''One printer setup can print all materials.''' [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 07:26, 1 December 2015 (PST)
#All printers use the same parts. [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 07:27, 1 December 2015 (PST)
#'''All printers use the same firmware.''' [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 07:33, 1 December 2015 (PST)
#One filament size. [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 07:34, 1 December 2015 (PST)
#Use one material for all printer structures. [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 07:37, 1 December 2015 (PST)
#Print only one material. [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 07:37, 1 December 2015 (PST)
#Make all printer electronics the same. [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 07:44, 1 December 2015 (PST)
#Use household materials to make printer. [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 07:45, 1 December 2015 (PST)
#Use household materials as print filament. [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 07:45, 1 December 2015 (PST)
#Replace all plywood with particle board. [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 07:49, 1 December 2015 (PST)
#Replace all metal parts with 3-D printed parts. [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 07:50, 1 December 2015 (PST)
#'''Adjustable extruder nozzle diameter.''' [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 06:53, 3 December 2015 (PST)
#Better heating element. [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 06:53, 3 December 2015 (PST)
#'''Make wiring connect with push connectors.''' [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 06:56, 3 December 2015 (PST)
#'''Water proof printer case to protect print from elements.''' [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 06:56, 3 December 2015 (PST)
#Suspend print head on magnets to remove the need for stepper motors. [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 06:59, 3 December 2015 (PST)
# part removing bed [[User:Afcowsky|Afcowsky]] ([[User talk:Afcowsky|talk]]) 07:53, 1 December 2015 (PST)
# extruder head with drive motor. [[User:Afcowsky|Afcowsky]] ([[User talk:Afcowsky|talk]]) 07:53, 1 December 2015 (PST)
# unjamming extruder head. [[User:Afcowsky|Afcowsky]] ([[User talk:Afcowsky|talk]]) 07:53, 1 December 2015 (PST)
# laser finisher in extruder. [[User:Afcowsky|Afcowsky]] ([[User talk:Afcowsky|talk]]) 06:57, 3 December 2015 (PST)
# laser finisher in printer axis. [[User:Afcowsky|Afcowsky]] ([[User talk:Afcowsky|talk]]) 07:04, 3 December 2015 (PST)
# laser part removal in print bed. [[User:Afcowsky|Afcowsky]] ([[User talk:Afcowsky|talk]]) 06:57, 3 December 2015 (PST)
# Multi directional printer extruder. (print on bed and ceiling for two parts before part removal is needed) [[User:Afcowsky|Afcowsky]] ([[User talk:Afcowsky|talk]]) 06:59, 3 December 2015 (PST)
#Multi-axis print head. [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 07:06, 3 December 2015 (PST)
#'''Make printer able to print multiple materials at one time.''' [[User:Wcvenis|Wcvenis]] ([[User talk:Wcvenis|talk]]) 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)
##e.g. concrete and mortar.
##e.g. pla and transparent filament.




1. Make tool head of 3D printer interchangeable for different applications --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:10, 3 December 2015 (PST)

2. 3D printer has a storage area for 3-D printed parts --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

3. 3D printer has a computer built into it that can be used --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

4. 3D printer can be used as a milling machine --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

5. '''An operating system for the 3D printer that everybody can program for different functions''' --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

6. Make 3D printer head adjustable to be able to handle different materials and sizes of filament --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

7. Make the size of the 3D printer such that it can handle large prints --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

8. '''Make a 3D printer capable of printing on top of another object''' --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

9. Make a 3D printer capable of printing an object from a jpeg image --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

10. Make a 3D printer capable of printing several complex objects at once --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

11. Make a 3D printer capable of printing complex geometry that can't be manufactured --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

12. Make a 3D printer for surface-mount technology for circuit boards --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

13. Make a 3D printer capable of making candy --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

14. '''Make the size of the 3D printer easily expendable''' --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

15. Make a 3D printer capable of drawing on paper --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

16. Make a 3D printer capable of making origami --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

17. Making a 3D printer capable of acting as a 2D printer --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

18. Make a 3D printer capable of moving around with wheels --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

19. Make a 3D printer capable of mixing seasonings for cooking and making a sauces --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

20. Add a laser to a 3D printer to cut small objects and cutting semi-conductors --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

21. Make a 3D printer capable of polishing objects --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

22. Make a 3D printer capable of fabricating circuit boards --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

23. Make a 3D printer capable of welding objects together --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

24. Make a 3D printer that could clean itself --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)

25. Make a 3D printer that can do an x-ray --[[User:Handychandra7|Handychandra7]] ([[User talk:Handychandra7|talk]]) Ethan Marshall 07:12, 3 December 2015 (PST)