1. '''Printable sheet that serves as tear off print bed.'''[[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:36, 1 December 2016 (PST)

2. T'''hin shell around printer that allows it to be operated outside.'''[[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:36, 1 December 2016 (PST)

3. Portable liquid containers. [[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:36, 1 December 2016 (PST)

'''4. Cover for Melzi [[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:36, 1 December 2016 (PST)
'''
5. Stick on Graphics for deltabot.[[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:36, 1 December 2016 (PST)

6. Gaskets. [[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:36, 1 December 2016 (PST)

7. Artificial temporary skin for field hospitals[[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:36, 1 December 2016 (PST)

8. Chemical etching templates[[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:36, 1 December 2016 (PST)

9. Tint for lenses.[[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:36, 1 December 2016 (PST)

10. Waterproofing electronics. [[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:36, 1 December 2016 (PST)

11. Mini-drone body panels [[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:36, 1 December 2016 (PST)

12. Dental veneers [[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:36, 1 December 2016 (PST)

14.  Heat retention for lower energy used by heated bed [[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:42, 1 December 2016 (PST)

15. Template for photo processes. [[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:42, 1 December 2016 (PST)

16. Stock for fine filter[[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:42, 1 December 2016 (PST)

17.  UV protection[[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:42, 1 December 2016 (PST)

18.  '''Thin fins on hot end to dissipate heat faster and allow for faster print.''' [[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:50, 1 December 2016 (PST)

19.  '''Extruder body made of composite matrix film''' [[User:Caaukee|Caaukee]] ([[User talk:Caaukee|talk]]) 07:50, 1 December 2016 (PST)