{{TheFWD header}}{{DISPLAYTITLE:Ode to the Tech Fix - Chris Malins}}
Thank goodness for technology, that gave us better roads.<br />
And faster cars and bigger trucks to handle heavy loads. <br />
Thank goodness for technology, that gave us flying planes.<br />
To get to California, Greece, New Zealand and Bahrain. <br />
Thank goodness for technology, and finding coal and oil.<br />
Without them we’d be in the dark, labouring at manual toil.<br />
Thank goodness for technology, and science and for business.<br />
That take the things we wouldst not to and kindly do them for us.<br />
Thank goodness for technology, and for the atom bomb.<br />
Without it war upon Japan would have been much more long.<br />
Thank goodness for technology, we’ll need in times ahead.<br />
For without solving climate change, we might all end up dead.<br />

Thank goodness for technology, for geoengineering.<br />
That’ll let us keep the planet cool, and suitable for living.<br />
Thank goodness for technology, for modern agriculture.<br />
Much more equipped to keep us fed than weak old fashioned nature.<br />
Thank goodness for technology, genetic modification,<br />
Much rather Round-up Ready crops than swarming insect nations.<br />
Thank goodness for technology, tech fixes to our problems. <br />
Better to innovate our lives than change the way we live them.<br />
Thank goodness for technology, to allow us to keep,<br />
The curtains pulled across our eyes and all our minds asleep.<br />
God save us from technology, for I can’t help but think,<br />
That if blindly we trust in it, our ship of fools might sink.<br />

{{TheFWD references}}

[[Category:TheFWD]]