{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Preventative, Treatment
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Odondevice 05.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Complications due to prolonged second stage of labor include potentially fatal maternal (hemorrhage, infection) and newborn complications (birth asphyxia and trauma), which are major sources of maternal and neonatal morbidity. In settings with limited surgical capacities and human resource constraints, a low-cost, simple and non-surgical means of assisting with labor may save the lives of many mothers and infants.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Odon Device is made of film-like polyethylene material and may be potentially safer and easier to apply than forceps and vacuum extractor (contraindicated in cases of HIV infection) for assisted deliveries, and a safe alternative to some Caesarean sections in settings with limited surgical capacity and human resource constraints. The five steps of its use can be found [http://www.odondevice.org/device.php here].

==Designed by==
*Designed by:
Mr Jorge Odón. 
A detailed description can be found [http://www.who.int/reproductivehealth/topics/maternal_perinatal/odon_device/en/index.html here].
*Manufacturer location:
Currently tested in Argentina.

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
The method was tested successfully in 2008 at Des Moines University and holds potential for addressing prolonged labor without advanced medical technology or expertise. Article available [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/od%C3%B3n-device-novel-%E2%80%9Cplastic-bag%E2%80%9D-paradigm-assisted-vaginal-delivery here].

There are currently clinical trials in Argentina and rural South Africa.  Phase I (Feto-maternal feasibility and security) was launched at the Saavedra branch of CEMIC, Buenos Aires, Argentina. Summaries available [http://savinglivesatbirth.net/summaries/38 here].
 
==Funding Source==
Awarded Saving Lives at Birth Grand Challenge, July 2011, which is sponsored by USAID, the Government of Norway, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Grand Challenges Canada, and The World Bank.

==References==
===Other internally generated reports===
See media page for links to numerous video news sources, including BBC and CNN.  [http://www.odondevice.org/media.php Media link] found here.
{{#widget:YouTube|id=OGLLXFzULd4}}

===Externally generated reports===
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tC81DFcW2Os Youtube video] of the creator's talk at "Saving Lives at Birth" Challenge.

===IP and copyright===
Publication number: US 2010/0241134 A1
Filing date: Sep 23, 2010


[[Category:Videos]]
[[Category:Health and safety videos]]