The '''[[OLPC]]''' (or '''One Laptop Per Child''') project includes putting bundles of information onto the [[XO]] laptop, so that users have access to information without even having internet access. 

When the OLPC's XO laptops are delivered to children around the world, they have a selection of content pre-installed. This includes content in their own language and other languages; it includes:
* content that we would easily recognize as educational material; 
* games; and 
* knowledge about wellbeing, sustainability, making efficient use of resources, and building resilient communities.

It is in the last category that Appropedia acts as a gathering point for knowledge. For Appropedia's work on contributing bundles, see '''[[Appropedia's OLPC content bundle]]'''.

== How to contribute ==
So you want to contribute to contribute to the OLPC content bundles, and want to know how?
* Use an [[open license]] for your work. All content that is pre-installed on XOs must have a [[open license]] - usually this is [[CC-BY-SA]] or [[CC-BY]] but there are other acceptable licenses.<ref>If you are not able to use an open license - usually because you have [[open access]] or [[non-commercial license]]d content - but you still want to share, then you will have to do it through other channels. Consider working with one of the [[offline content collaborations]], and perhaps leave a note on [[Talk:Offline content collaborations]].</ref>
* Either make a content bundle yourself, or share the content on a collection point site, such as Appropedia. Sharing it here:
:* gives it more visibility, and gives access to a wider group of readers and contributors, besides XO users.
:* avoids the technical details of making your own bundle.
:* invites contributions to develop the content is further.

== Notes ==
<small><references/></small>

== Interwiki links ==
* [[OLPC:Bundles]] and [[OLPC:Creating a collection]] - the OLPC wiki's pages on bundles.

[[Category:Education]]
[[Category:Information technology]]
[[Category:Offline content]]
[[Category:ICT4D]]