{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Cardiovascular diseases
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, South [http://www.google.com.au America]
|Image=Omron.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Hypertension (also known as high blood pressure) continues to be a large problem globally. Blood pressure monitoring, however has changed little since it was first developed roughly a century ago. The traditional mercury sphygmomanometer is being phased out of use because of the toxicity of mercury. This has led to more widespread use of oscillometric, semi-automatic devices. Semi-automatic devices, however, still traditionally rely on batteries or an electrical connection in order to operate.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Omron HEM-Solar fills the gap for an automated blood pressure monitor that can be easily used in rural setting. It does not require the training needed for the manual auscultatory method (using a mercury sphygmomanometer). The Omron HEM-Solar contains a solar panel that recharges the devices batteries allowing it to perform up to 300 readings without needing to be recharged. 

==Design and Manufacturing==
*Designed and manufactured by: Omron Healthcare

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
*Testing: Field testing in Africa was published in June 2009.
*Implementation: This device is currently on the market, available online. Omron targets Europe, Middle-East and Africa. It is useful in all settings and has been tested specifically for use in low-resource settings.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Greef, A. de, & Ashraf, D. (2011). Validation of a solar powered blood pressure device, suitable for use in low resource settings. Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed. Link available [http://fn.bmj.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/content/96/Suppl_1/Fa105.2.abstract here].

Parati, G., Kilama, M. O., Faini, A., Facelli, E., Ochen, K., Opira, C., Mendis, S., et al. (2010). A new solar-powered blood pressure measuring device for low-resource settings. Hypertension, 56(6), 1047–1053. Am Heart Assoc. Link available [http://hyper.ahajournals.org.proxy.lib.umich.edu/content/56/6/1047.short here].

===Externally generated reports===
Chimes, A. (2010). Solar Blood Pressure Monitor Passes Africa Field Tests. Voice of America. Link available [http://www.voanews.com/english/news/africa/Solar-Blood-Pressure-Monitor-Passes-Africa-Field-Tests--107533078.html here].