<!-- Comments that appear only in the edit view are formatted like this. -->
<!-- These comments are offered as an aid as you get started. Remove as you wish. -->
<!-- next line is the code for inserting an image; delete if you don't have an image yet -->

<center>''This project was first designed to upgrade a salt spray chamber on Michigan Technological Universities campus. The project has been expanded to convert all designs of the salt spay chamber to open source design. ''</center>

== Project goals ==

# Plan upgrades
# Execute Upgrades
# Make BOM and instructions for entire chamber
# Profit

== Design ==

All design files are hosted on http://3dprint.nih.gov
The links for each file are listed below.

{{Gallery
|width=180
|height=135
|title= Salt Spray Chamber Upgrade
|lines=5
|Image:Nozzle_clamp.PNG|[http://3dprint.nih.gov/discover/3dpx-002137 Nozzle Clamp]
|Image:Insulation_bracket.PNG|[http://3dprint.nih.gov/discover/3DPX-002169 Insulation Bracket]
|Image:Coupon_rack.PNG|[http://3dprint.nih.gov/discover/3dpx-002139 Coupon Rack]
|Image:Hood_prop.PNG|[http://3dprint.nih.gov/discover/3dpx-002150 Hood Props]
|Image:Chamber_drain.png|[http://3dprint.nih.gov/discover/3DPX-002161 Chamber Drain]
}}

{{Gallery
|width=180
|height=135
|title= Before and After
|lines=2
|Image:Before_chamber.jpg|Before
|Image:After_chamber.jpg|After
}}

{{Gallery
|width=180
|height=135
|title= Insulation Clamp
|lines=3
|Image:Insulation_bracket_1.jpg|Side View
|Image:Insulation_bracket_2.jpg|Front View
|Image:Bracket_clamping.jpg|In Use
}}

{{Gallery
|width=180
|height=135
|title= Hood Prop
|lines=1
|Image:Hood_prop_1.jpg|Printed Hood Prop
}}

{{Gallery
|width=180
|height=135
|title= Drain Images
|lines=2
|Image:Drain_1.JPG|Drain in Chamber
|Image:Drain_2.JPG|Secondary Angle
}}

{{Gallery
|width=180
|height=135
|title= Nozzle Images
|lines=1
|Image:Nozzle_clamp_1.jpg|Nozzle with Clamp
}}

{{Gallery
|width=180
|height=135
|title= Sample Holder
|lines=1
|Image:Sample_holder_1.jpg|Holder in Use
}}

== Costs ==

This table shows the cost savings for the current modifications to the chamber.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! 
! Nozzle Clamp
! Insulation Bracket
! Coupon Rack
! Hood Props
! Chamber Drain
! TOTAL
|-
! Original Price
| $5
| $30
| $400 for 4
| $60
| $10
| $505
|-
! New Price
| <<$1
| $16 for 16
| <<$1 each
| $11.30
| <<$1
| $33
|-
! Savings
| $5
| $14
| $100
| $48.70
| $10
! $472
|}

== Conclusions ==

This salt spray chamber would save approximately $19,000 from our first rough estimates. Our current modifications now save approximately $475 assuming that just 4 sample racks are needed. These modifications can easily be put into most chambers with only small changes needed. This chamber has no loss in quality, and currently complies with all ASTM standards.

== Project Members ==

[[User:Cleyton|Cleyton Cavallaro]],
[[User:Thomas_Korejsza|Thomas Korejsza]],
[[User:Eli_Gooding|Eli Gooding]],
[[User:Erik_Bain|Erik Bain]],
[[User:mdholt|Mike Holt]],
[[User:klbarie|Kyle Barie]]

<!-- Don't change the next line unless you intend to change the categorization -->
<!-- Do add additional, appropriate categories.  See http://www.appropedia.org/Appropedia:CategoryTree for ideas. -->


[[Category:Projects]]
[[Category:MY4777]]