==Smart Home and IT Systems==

This subsection covers the choice and implementation of personal computing, communications, and Smart Home systems. Choosing a personal computing platform for the Open House is straightforward enough, now that there are quite accessible and easy-to-use Linux desktop OSes at-hand. Though the deeper, commodity, levels of digital hardware remain proprietary, there are also a number of open source desktop and laptop PCs which we can choose from for household needs. Smart Home technology is a bit newer to the open source development world, but a rapid proliferation of open source microcontrollers led by the well-known Arduino have inspired rapid development in recent years and there are now some readily available open source home control platforms to choose from. They may take a bit more knowledge and skill to implement than off-the-shelf systems, but not that much so. The technology is generally still in an early phase and no systems can truly be called plug-and-play, open or not. 

The key issue here is how useful Smart Home technology would be for the kinds of homes we plan. Much as with the use of domestic robots, the small house concepts really beg the question of the need for Smart Home systems. Generally, the technology remains a bit of a solution in search of problems. Home automation applications of the past have often been a bit silly. But there are a few areas where this technology would be particularly useful in our context; management of the microfarm's systems, waste management systems, and sustainable energy systems. Thus we would seek a platform that can be as useful for that as for other household uses. 

One promising Smart Home platform is [http://www.calaos.fr/en/ Calos|, which supports a number of open controllers and the use of a tablet-based trouch screen interface. Another likely contender is [http://www.openhab.org/ OpenHAB] which is more complex and predominately Java based, but may have more diverse hardware support. And then there's [https://home-assistant.io/components/ Home Assistant] which may be a leaner solution that also specifically supports Arduino.

[http://www.appropedia.org/Open_House:_Building_an_Open_Source_Lifestyle >>return to top]