== Microfarm ==

The Microfarm is the other key feature of the Open Home that helps it function as an engine of self-sufficiency. A Microfarm is a small integrated farming complex that uses urban and vertical farming techniques and hydroponics/aquaponics technology to optimize productivity in as small a space as possible. There will be many sophisticated features to the complex, particularly as we wish this project to showcase many novel and cutting-edge concepts. But the chief features will be a greenhouse housing an open source vertical growing aquaponics system akin to [https://www.brightagrotech.com/products/ ZipGrow] and containerized sub-irrigation planters for large plants and Living Machine waste handling. Not strictly functional, the Microfarm will also include living wall/farming wall systems as a decorative architectural feature. 

We will also seek to demonstrate the potential of microfarming as not only a food source but a producer of materials and even energy through systems employing algaeculture and composting for biogas fuel cells. Since husbandry typically requires much more space than horticulture, the Microfarm would likely not employ much use of that, but can feature fish farming as integral to its aquaponics and may include raising of chickens and the culturing of insects as food or feedstock for chickens and fish. We may also include a butterfly house as an aesthetic and conservation feature. The subsections below comprise the key elements anticipated for the Microfarm.

*[[open house aquaponics|aquaponics greenhouse]]
*[[open house living machines|living machine air and water processors]]
*[[open house living walls|living walls]]
*[[open house sub irrigation|sub-irrigation containers]]
*[[open house algaeculture|algaeculture system]]
*[[open house fungiculture|fungiculture system]]
*[[open house apiary|apiary]]
*[[open house insect farm|insect farm]]
*[[open house butterfly house|butterfly house]]


--
http://farmhack.org/tools


[http://www.appropedia.org/Open_House:_Building_an_Open_Source_Lifestyle >>return to top]