An '''open development wiki''' has been discussed and advocated during the 2000s. [[Appropedia]] has begun to fulfill this role - documenting all aspects of [[open development]] and the reasons for open development. 

The importance of [[knowledge sharing for development]] is widely recognized, and a [[wiki]] is a proven tool for knowledge sharing. The advantages of [[transparency]] and the use of [[open licenses]] are widely acknowledged, but not widely practiced; documenting the 
case for open development helps to advance the cause; and explaining what constitutes open development will hopefully protect it from being co-opted or used as a mere shibboleth.

In sharing information on practices, [[technology]] and contextual information (e.g. [[Country Guides]]), this could meet the needs of [[aid and development workers]], [[volunteers]], local NGOs. This can also benefit the "targets" of development, as [[internet access]] improves, and even poor people in remote villages can potentially  benefit from knowing someone with internet access.

Being the wiki for open development, in as many words, has been a key part of the [[Appropedia:Vision and mission|aim]] of  [[Appropedia]] since it started in 2006. This is well within the scope of the site, and related subjects matter on the wiki is growing, including:
* [[Open development, open aid]]
* [[Green wikis and development wikis]] for an analysis of existing projects.
* [[Resources for aid and development workers]] (topic areas such as [[Principles of development]])
* [[Open source appropriate technology]]

== See also ==
* [[Knowledge sharing in practice]]

== Interwiki links ==

* [[Akvopedia:|Akvopedia]] - a wiki for water technologies.

[[Category:Wikis for international development]]
[[Category:Wikis for human development]]
[[Category:Open development]]