{{Akvo ATOC}}

'''Open knowledge for [[international development]]''' includes the use of [[open licenses]], [[open protocols]], technologies for [[knowledge sharing]]

== The problem ==

{{main|Information silo}}

When [[aid organizations]] and [[development organizations]] act in a proprietary way towards their knowledge, this creates an [[information silo]]. This is solved through ensuring access to knowledge and using open licenses.

== Why it matters ==

If you make your technology [[appropriate technology|appropriate]] and you make the [[how-tos]] accessible, you can get people to solve their problems themselves. 

The challenge is that this reduces people's dependence on aid and development agencies. The dichotomy is that the sector has got to work hard to release it's knowledge in order to achieve their mission, but this also means that a lot of their revenue streams, a lot of their purpose will become redundant. The ultimate goal of a development organization is to bring people to the point that they no longer need this kind help - i.e., to put itself out a job, at least for that community or sector. How committed are you, are we, to the welfare of those we claim to serve?

== Active projects in knowledge sharing for development ==

* [http://wikimania2007.wikimedia.org/wiki/Proceedings:RG1 Moulin] - Focused on Wikipedia content. (French based, Africa focused plus Persian language. Renaud Gaudin spent several months volunteering with Geekcorps Mali. They're working with the US Peace Corps, in discussion with UNESCO? Apparently approached OLPC in the past, so they're interested in cooperating.)
* WikiAfrica
* [[OLPC]], through the [[XO]] laptop. (MOU with Appropedia being worked on now - Nov 2008)
Likely participants:
* The [http://www.jhai.org/technology.php  Jhai PC and Communication System], a project of the Jhai Foundation, is a computer and communications system designed  to meet the needs of villagers in remote and rural areas. (Some thought has been given to providing content on the machines; openness is an expressed value of Jhai.)

There are numerous other projects compiling [[open access]]<ref>[[Open access]] gives much less freedom than fully [[open licenses]]. Licenses with a [[non-commercial clause]] are in between.</ref> knowledge for international development: ''see [[Offline content collaboration]]''.

==Notes==
<small><references/></small>



[[Category:Aid]]
[[Category:Open development]]
[[Category:Open knowledge]]
[[Category:Principles of development]]
[[Category:Knowledge sharing]]
[[Category:Commons]]