{{DISPLAYTITLE:openCCS}}
'''openCCS''' is a [[wiki]]-style knowledge base for [[carbon capture and storage]] (CCS), located at [http://www.globalccsinstitute.com/openccs globalccsinstitute.com/openccs]. 

openCCS is a project of the [[Global CCS Institute]], an independent [[nonprofit organisation|nonprofit]] established by the [[Government of Australia|Australian government]] to accelerate global deployment of CCS ([[carbon capture and storage]]) projects.

The ultimate purpose of openCCS and the Global CCS Institute is to mitigate [[climate change]] by reducing the emission of [[carbon dioxide]] by power plants and other industrial sources powered. [[Sharing knowledge]] in this way is intended to facilitate the development of new projects through wider knowledge of the methodologies, best practices and technologies needed for a successful CCS project.

== Scope == 

The scope of openCCS includes:
* Methodologies 
* Best practices
* Lessons learned
* Technologies

Every stage and aspect is covered, including [[carbon capture]], [[carbon dioxide transport|transport]], [[carbon dioxide storage|storage]] and [[carbon dioxide utilisation|utilisation]]. The term [[carbon capture, utilisation and storage]] better encapsulates the range of subjects covered. 

== Access ==

"Mature" articles are viewable by all. 

Registration is required to edit or to view "Draft", "Developing" or "Under review" articles. Registration is by a simple online application. The intention is to ensure that editors have some degree of expertise or understanding of the field.

== External links ==

* [http://www.globalccsinstitute.com/openccs openCCS] homepage
* [http://www.slideshare.net/globalccs/introduction-to-openccs Introduction to openCCS] - slideshow.

[[Category:Sustainability wikis]]
[[Category:Climate change]]
[[Category:Carbon capture and storage]]