'''Modifying the land''' refers to implementing additional changes to the land in order to make it a semi-profitable asset which still produces products that are essential to humans (eg food, clothing, ...) but in such a manner that the least possible human influence to the environment results.

==Zoning==
[http://www.permaculture.org/nm/images/uploads/Permaculture_Techniques.pdf The system of zoning] is a mechanism to use the organisms that you want in the system as efficiently as possible in your design. With zoning you create different zones. These areas are based on the amount of time you naturally spend in an area.
 
The zones go from the house/building where you reside to far away from the house/building you reside. For convenience, we can divide the usable space in 6 different zones.
 
Zone 0 is the zone where the person lives, the shelter, it is the place where someone can retreat to and where you feel safe. Where you good take good care for yourself and for the rest of the family.
  
Zone 1 is the zone immediately surrounding the living area of the house and the area you pass by several times a day for different reasons, for example the path to the road to get to the postbox.
In zone 1, plants are grown that are used frequently and require much attention as vegetables and herbs. If someone has limited space it is convenient to make use of the height of the house by attaching climbing plants like grapes and kiwis. Because you often go through this area it is easy to pull out weed and to mulch, to see whether the beans are ready for harvesting, ...
 
Zone 2 is slightly further away, here are the larger vegetable beds with plants that need less attention. Berry bushes and small trees can also be in this area. You can also find a chicken tractor, greenhouses and water storage installations in this area.
  
Zone 3 is the agricultural zone, here are the potatoes, cereals and tubers grown and
are most of the hedges and wind barriers that are vital for the microclimate. This microclimate allows great energy savings (solar circles and windcircles). An orchard is also part of this zone.

Zone 4 is the zone of low management, animals graze here, wood plantations are here and wild
fruit may grow. Little happens here, but but light management and harvesting.
 
Zone 5 is the area where people do nothing. This is nature as it shows itself without any active intervention of man. Through this zone we build a natural stock of bacteria, fungi and insects that will be of service in the interior zones. 
be. It is also an important place for nature in the wild to observe that
Here you can gain ideas in your own design. It is very important this area is
inform them. If your area is not so large you can skip the example zone 3 and 4
but trying to build a zone 5. This is also a key area for the
nature as they originally appear in the area allowed them to continue. And as many people 
[[permaculture]] design have a very close zone5 everyone together to making this a
large network of original nature in which the naturally occurring plant
and animals are good at spreading and moving.
 
The zones are created in order to save us as much time as possible by taking into account how
long you naturally are present in a zone. You can place your vegetables and herbs far away from 
the house but would you then go to get some fresh chives for the soup you're brewing? By
dividing the system into practical zones you optimize the design. Maybe
it is through this handy classification system that the zoning is sometimes referred to as "the lazy way of farming". <ref>[http://www.permacultuurnederland.org/permacultuurtk/permacultuur5.0.pdf Document on zoning]</ref>

Note that either zone 3 or 4 may also be created using the [[agroforestry]] technique (alternating rows of trees with crops).

==References==
{{reflist}}

[[Category:Original environment rehabilitation manual]]
[[Category:Permaculture]]