OSN Mid-Missouri is the gathering for all those interested in openness and [[knowledge sharing]] for a more sustainable Mid-Missouri. It is also the first local gathering of the [[Open Sustainability Network]].

== What ==
===Purpose===
*Educate and Engage the University of Missouri community in appropriate tech, emergent systems for localization, etc.
*Catalyze and bolster the sharing and exchange of skills, knowledge and resources in Mid-Missouri as a whole.

===Tentative Schedule (see detailed below)===
:1:00 - 2:15 pm, Opening, purpose, agenda, Lonny's talk, Introductions and Marketplace
:2:30 - 3:25 pm, Three concurrent working groups, working towards deliverable agreements.
:3:30 - 4:15 pm, Next steps and Closing

===Goals===
To facilitate the generation of: 
*at least one specific and deliverable next step per working group  
*at least two deeper connections between existing community partners
*many new community connections
all towards a more sustainable Mid Missouri region.

== The Basics ==
{{TOCright}}
'''Open Sustainability Network Mid Missouri- Tools to Thrive'''
<center>Saturday, March 14th, 2009 </center>
<center>1:00-4:30 pm </center>
<center>Registration at [http://www.facebook.com/photos/?ref=sb#/event.php?eid=54179753356 Facebook] and [http://osnmidmissouri.eventbrite.com/ Eventbrite]</center>

:University of Missouri - Columbiaweman
:Gwynn Hall (Tentative)
:813 Virginia Ave
:Columbia, MO 65201
:NOTE- The campus location does not indicate this is just for students.  As above, anyone in Mid Missouri or Missouri in general, or anyone interested in these networks is welcome!

== Detailed Schedule ==
===Opening, Talk, Introductions and Marketplace (1:00-2:15)===
We will begin with a short introduction by Lonny on what exactly we believe these tools to thrive are.  [[Open Design]], Knowledge Sharing and Open Information Systems (like Appropedia) are just a few of these tools.  This is intended for a wide audience and those who attend need not stay for working groups if they are not interested. However, if you are, then you are more than welcome

This will be followed with a quick introduction to the Open Space Format and a "Market Place" where we will all plan the working groups.

===Network and Collaborate (2:30-3:25)===
These working groups will use a flexible, open space format and are intended for folks who really want to get involved in creating these networks or feel they have stake in how these networks function. We hope to use this as an opportunity for folks to network as well. We will envision and plan what these networks are about, how they will function, and what direction they will head in.

The plan is to end this working groups with deliverable next steps that can lead to the creation of these networks, online and offline.

===Wrap It Up, Closing Remarks (3:30-4:15)===
Here we will wrap up the Open Space sessions and bring everyone back together to see what has been accomplished.  People can make closing remarks and become aware of the next steps for the networks we seek to establish, and begin to plan further gatherings for down the road.

== Who Might be Interested? ==
We are interested in having folks attend the working groups who are involved skillholders in these fields, or others that could use these networks:

* [[Permaculture]],
* Sustainable agriculture and homesteading,
* Appropriate technology,
* [[Renewable energy]],
* Community software,
* General sustainable infrastructure development
* [[Community development]]
* local/regional social enterprise development

AS well as anyone who would be interested in learning more about any of these fields through the anticipated network.

== Who is Organizing This? ==
This is the result of collaboration between Open Source Ecology, Mid-Missouri, (an MU student group who is working with the community on creating transitional foundations for sustainability in its area) and Lonny Grafman from Appropedia.  We are both members of the Open Sustainability Network.  Open Source Ecology, Mid Missouri functions as part of Open Source Ecology, alongside Factor E Farm, a land based research and design facility plus homestead for the creation and documentation of open design, [[sustainable technologies]] and knowledge.

== Show Me Sustainability Partnership ==
We have adjusted our schedule and will be cross-posting schedules for the Show Me Sustainability Conference on the same campus that day (twas a last minute realization).  Its focus is on campus sustainability leadership and consists of a keynote speaker, poster sessions and workshops in various student-oriented sustainability areas.  It is $20 to register and includes an organic, vegetarian meal.

We will be encouraging them to attend our working group sessions, and will encourage you to attend that before and during parts of our conference given your interest.  We hope to be able to collaborate fruitfully.

== Contact - More Information ==
Get ahold of Richard Schulte at Richard.J.Schulte at gmail dotcom.  You can also call him at 440.376.7984

== Follow up ==
To create a follow up page, edit this page, add your page name to the list below following the same format, click save and then click the link to your new page and start editing.
*[[OSNCamp_Mid_Missouri/Agenda]]
*[[OSNCamp_Mid_Missouri/NEWPAGENAME]]

[[Category:Open Sustainability Network]]