{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Malaria
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=North America
|Image=Paracheck_PF.jpg
|Image Caption=Paracheck Image
}}
==Problem being addressed==
When this device was created (in 2001) microscopic diagnosis was the preferred malaria diagnosis method, but the cost of equipment and the training required were prohibitive. Previous rapid detection devices were too expensive for the developing world. This device was built for developing countries where fast diagnosis and ease of use are essential.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Paracheck Pf Rapid Test device comes in two forms, a dipstick and a flat-lying device. A drop of blood is collected from a finger prick, the blood flows through a membrane after placement in a buffer, and passes over a colored anti Pf HRP-2 antisera-colloidal gold conjugate. As the test progresses, the conjugate reacts with the HRP-2 and forms a pink line. The pink indicates a positive test, and a lack of bands indicates a negative test.

==Manufacturer==
*Made by Orchid Biomedical Systems. 
*The company's headquarters are in Goa, India.

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
 
==Funding Source==

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
* [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16492359 Comparison of the Paracheck-Pf test with microscopy, for the confirmation of Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Tanzania]
* [http://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&q=%22Paracheck+Pf%22+&btnG=Search&as_sdt=0%2C23&as_ylo=&as_vis=0 Short communication: Paracheck‐Pf®: a new, inexpensive and reliable rapid test for P. falciparum malaria]

===Other internally generated reports===
* [http://www.tulipgroup.com/Common_New/FAQ/PARACHECK%20PF%20REPORT.pdf 10 year report performance data]
* [http://www.tulipgroup.com/Orchid_New/product_range.htm Product Specs]

===Externally generated reports===
* [http://www.malariajournal.com/content/6/1/58 Test of accuracy - Malaria Journal]
* [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20092620 Assessment of two malaria rapid diagnostic tests in children under five years of age, with follow-up of false-positive pLDH test results, in a hyperendemic falciparum malaria area, Sierra Leone]
* [http://www.ajtmh.org/cgi/reprint/72/1/26.pdf USEFULNESS OF A RAPID ON-SITE PLASMODIUM FALCIPARUM DIAGNOSIS (PARACHECK PF) IN FOREST MIGRANTS AND AMONG THE INDIGENOUS POPULATION AT THE SITE OF THEIR OCCUPATIONAL ACTIVITIES IN CENTRAL INDIA]
* [http://www.ajtmh.org/cgi/reprint/73/5/855.pdf EVALUATION OF A RAPID DIAGNOSTIC TEST FOR ASSESSING THE BURDEN OF MALARIA AT DELIVERY IN INDIA ]

===IP and copyright===

===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===
*ISO 9001
*CE certified
* Currently attaining FDA approval - http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00565071

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->

[[Category:Malaria]]