{{TOCright}}
This page is for listing Appropriate Technology pre-assignments in the [[:Category:Parras 2008|Parras 2008]] program.  The Moodle/Calendar will be more up-to-date with assignments; they are duplicated here for an overview and in case of Moodle problems.  

==Online chat with Lonny==
[http://chat.cocre8.org/ click here] to chat with Lonny about homework.

==HW#1 - Week 1 - Reading==
#Read [http://rael.berkeley.edu/files/1997/Kammen-Dove-Mundane-Science-1997.pdf The Virtues of Mundane Science]
#Post one paragraph or less response to Moodle.  Feel free to employ creative use of English and/or Spanish, poetry, etc.  Show some level of synthesis of the article.

==HW#2 - Week 2 - Create your user page==
#Select and copy the text below
#Click your username (after logging in) in the upper right of Appropedia
#Paste the text 
#Replace BOLDED words with your own
#Preview, summarize and save
#Add your photo with the help of Graham and Joey, or [[media:AddanImageTutorialR.swf|this screencast]].
#Post the URL (copy and paste from the address bar) to the Moodle Assignment
''Feel free to improvise - See the '''User:UserName''' pages listed under [[:Category:Parras 2007|Parras 2007]] for examples'' 

====Copy the following the code====
<pre>
  Nombre: TU NOMBRE
  Teléfono en Parras: TU TELÉFONO
  Ubicación en Parras: TU UBICACIÓN
 
 ===Intereses en Tecnología Apropiada===
 *INTERES#1
 *INTERES#2
 
 ===Experencia en Tecnología Apropiada===
 *EXPERENCIA#1
 *EXPERENCIA#2
 
 [[Category:Parras 2008]]
</pre>

==HW#3 - Week 3 - Criterios==

#Pick 9 terms that define the success of an [[appropriate technology]]. 
#Translate them into Spanish and post them to your Appropedia userpage using the heading ''<nowiki>===Criterios===</nowiki>''. Here are three examples of possible AT criteria: adaptability, level of embedded energy, usefulness.
#Post your URL to Moodle when your page is ready for review.

==HW#4 - Week 4 - Past Projects==

#Read two of the past Parras projects from [[:Category:Parras 2007|Parras 2007]] and/or [[:Category:Parras 2006|Parras 2006]].
#Write one paragraph response to one, or both, of the projects and post to Moodle. This response can be in English, Spanish, graphs, math or anything that conveys your very brief analysis of the project(s) you read.

==HW#5 - Week 5 - AT photos==

Take the following actions for the AT topics you have selected [[#AT topic assignments|below]]:
#Take one photo (or more) of a local example of each of your AT topics
#For each of the two topics, answer the following on a piece of paper:
#*Brief description such as type and application.
#*Location.
#*Justification as Appropriate Technology based on a definition of AT.
#*Issues with its appropriateness based on a definition of AT.
#*Notes, such as phone number, if applicable.
#Submit these papers to Francisco for review of Spanish.

<math>Insert formula here</math>===AT topic assignments===
Pick two topics from the AT photo galleries below (or email me to create your own).  Each topic can have no more than two students covering it.  E.g. if you pick [[Parras earthen construction gallery]] as one of your topics, you are to answer the above questions for an example of earthen construction that you have found and photographed in Parras.  You are welcome to define earthen construction liberally. Feel free to ask for clarification.  Please note that you will be posting to the galleries next week.
----
* [[Parras agriculture gallery]]
** --[[User:Ltpayne|Ltpayne]] 21:26, 26 June 2008 (PDT)
** --[[User:Razevedo|Razevedo]] 10:40, 29 June 2008 (PDT)
* [[Parras alternative materials gallery]]
** POST USERNAME HERE (use 4 ~s)(use 4 ~s (<nowiki>~~~~</nowiki>) or click the signature looking button on the tool bar above)
** --[[User:Cblouisa|Cblouisa]] 20:20, 2 August 2008 (PDT)
* [[Parras animals gallery]]
** POST USERNAME HERE (use 4 ~s)
** POST USERNAME HERE (use 4 ~s)
* [[Parras community education gallery]]
** POST USERNAME HERE (use 4 ~s)
** POST USERNAME HERE (use 4 ~s)
* [[Parras earthen construction gallery]]
** [[User:Jthiller|-- Joey]] 12:49, 22 June 2008 (PDT)
** [[User:Smg59|Smg59]] 13:53, 29 June 2008 (PDT) (use 4 ~s)
* [[Parras health care gallery]]
** POST USERNAME HERE (use 4 ~s)
** POST USERNAME HERE (use 4 ~s)
* [[Parras laundry gallery]]
** --[[User:Razevedo|Razevedo]] 10:42, 29 June 2008 (PDT)
** POST USERNAME HERE (use 4 ~s)
* [[Parras passive solar design gallery]]
** [[User:Jthiller|-- Joey]] 14:32, 27 June 2008 (PDT)
** [[User:Acs26|Acs26]] 16:20, 3 July 2008 (PDT)
* [[Parras rainwater gallery]]
** [[User:Smg59|Smg59]] 10:09, 30 June 2008 (PDT)
** Daniel Hernandez[[User:Tierra|Tierra]] 20:47, 14 July 2008 (PDT)
* [[Parras recycling and reuse gallery]]
** [[User:Ltpayne|Ltpayne]] 11:42, 29 June 2008 (PDT)
** Daniel Hernandez[[User:Tierra|Tierra]] 20:47, 14 July 2008 (PDT)
* [[Parras solar gallery]]
** --[[User:Cblouisa|Cblouisa]] 20:20, 2 August 2008 (PDT)
** POST USERNAME HERE (use 4 ~s)
* [[Parras transportation gallery]]
** [[User:Gcf5|Gcf5]] 14:01, 29 June 2008 (PDT)
** [[User:Acs26|Acs26]] 16:20, 3 July 2008 (PDT)
* [[Parras water gallery]]
** [[User:Gcf5|Gcf5]] 14:01, 29 June 2008 (PDT)
** POST USERNAME HERE (use 4 ~s)
* [[Parras wind power gallery]]
** POST USERNAME HERE (use 4 ~s)
** POST USERNAME HERE (use 4 ~s)
----

==HW#6 - Week 6 - Post AT photos==
After review of the Spanish in HW#5 by Francisco.  Post your AT photos:
# Size widest dimension of your photo to be less than 325 pixels
# Log into Appropedia
# Upload photos to Appropedia
# Go to [[Parras AT]]
# Select your topic gallery
# Copy and paste the following code to your topic gallery
#* Replace the ALLCAP text with your own from HW#5.
{{Template:Parras_AT}}

==HW#7 - Week 6 - Microhidro==
*Tarea corte de microhidro due Tuesday
*Read [[Microhydro]] before Wednesday
*Labortorio y tarea larga de microhidro due Wednesday
*Labortorio y tarea corte de electricidad due Friday

==HW#8 - Week 7 - Electricidad==
*Tarea larga de electricidad due lunes
*Tarea corte de PV due martes
*Tarea corte de energia due miercoles
*Due martes: Buscas para un eror en este paginas de web - http://www.howstuffworks.com/hydropower-plant.htm
*Laboratorio y tarea larga de PV due jueves
*Read [[Electricity basics]]
*Read [[Power and energy basics]]
*Extracredit problem set on Moodle.
*Make sure that you have your background (with citations), criteria and designs up on your project page.

==Week 8 - Energy and PV==
*Read [[Photovoltaics]]

==Week 10 - Water and AT==
*Read [http://www.bidoun.com/issues/issue_10/04_all.html pure product]
**There is an easier to read version on Moodle under course documents/pure product.

==Useful links==
[http://download.softpedia.ro/dl/ed0dc9a1fa8e147be5a7df697cd1f648/4880b8e1/100016882/software/PORTABLE/INTERNET/BROWSER/Firefox_Portable_3.0_en-us.paf.exe Download portable firefox]

==Appropedia editing help==
Here are some useful [[Help:contents|help]] pages.
*[[Help:Images]].  Galleries may be exceptionally useful.
*[[Help:Footnotes]].  You can use MLA, APA, ASCE or any citation format, but please use the footnote tools for reading ease.
*[[Help:Tables]] and [[Help:Table examples]].  You may be especially interested in this example/template [[Help:Table_examples#Cost_Table|cost table]].

[[Category:Parras 2008]]