===Horse & Wagon Used for Milk Delivery===
;Description
:Horse used as alternative method (to trucks) for delivering milk in the community.  The horse and carriage, along with driver, deliver milk to homes throughout the community of Parras.  

;Location
:This operation can be found working around town beginning in the early mornings, 5am and working most of the day.  Early mornings look for this trio on calle de 16 de Septiembre.

;Justification
:The use of the horse and carriage create and utilize symbiotic relationships between individuals, communities and their environment.  This method serves the community very well because the this service delivers milk right to the door of people living in the community; therefore, replacing the need for car travel.  As far as the environment, the only pollution is coming from natural horse dung that may be left behind on the street.

;Issues
:The gentleman who owns the horses and carriage works 15 hours a day, 7 days a week.  Although he owns 10 horses and rotates the use of horse labor, it would seem to me that the horses work very hard and possibly lead to a shorter life span.

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:Buggy y caballo rear.jpg|
|Image:Caballoybuggyonly.jpg|
}}

===Horse/Burro/Donkey as Alternative Methods of Transportation===
;Description
:Using animals as transportation.  Harness the donkey/burro/horse in their halter, reins, give them a love tap with your heel, and let em fly.  

;Location
:Take Ramos Arizpe to the light at 16 de Septiembre, turn left onto 16 de Septiembre and follow 5-10 miles until you see a sign on the righthand side of the road to a ranch named "Rancho Tintorera".  Turn right into the ranch and follow the dirt road until you see this cute little man on his donkey.  You will also see many individuals on horses, horses plowing fields with a manual crop diggers (mostly corn crops), several papalote's (windmills which generate water for irrigation, animals, etc), solar heat for water usage, and many adobe buildings.  This is an excellent ride for mountain bikers!  Probably take a few hours on bike.  The dirt road comes out to a paved road, turn right onto the paved road and head straight for a few miles.  This paved road comes out at the intersection 16 de Septiembre and Ramos Arizpe.  As far as animals for transportation, they can be found around Parras on any given day.

;Justification
:Because the use of cars are not employed, therefore no emission of toxins into the environment.  Getting from one place to another is based on the shear sweat equity from the animal, navigated in the desired direction of the person piloting the animal.  No mechanisms involved.  Parras is an agricultural community that manifests animal husbandry, both for domestic uses and transportation.  Using horses, donkeys, mules, and burros as a method of transportation utilizes long standing community resources sustaining symbiotic relationships between individuals, communities and their environment   

;Issues
:Again, taking the animal themselves into consideration, it is very necessary to be sure that the animals are in good health and treated respectfully to assure they are not overworked.

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:Hombre y donkey2.jpg|
|Image:Hombreydonkey.jpg|
}}
<!--paste code here-->

===Instructions===
To add a new AT implementation to this resource, Copy and paste the following into notepad. Make the appropriate edits (replace allcap text) and then paste above the Instructions line in the edit window. 
{{template:Parras AT}}

[[Category:AT Photos]]  
[[Category:Parras AT]]
[[Category:Livestock]]