===Estanque De La Luz===
;Description
:The Estanque De La Luz is a large tank for storing water.  Parras is an oasis where large amounts of subterranean water makes its way to the surface.  This water is initially deposited on the mountains to the south of Parras in the form of rain and leeches into the subterranean aquifers.  The mountains act as the catchment surface, the subterranean aquifers as the plumbing/¨gutters¨ and the Estanque as the holding tank.  The water that is stored in the Estanque de la Luz along with other large tanks around Parras is used for a variety of watering needs.  The main use is agriculture which is comprised mostly of Nuez (pecan) trees and Uves (grape) vines.

;Location
:The Estanque de la Luz is located in one of the highest places possible in Parras.  This enables water to be gravitationally dispersed.  Parras is built on the north facing slope of a gradually sloping hill.  There are few infrastructures uphill or south of the Estanque de la Luz.

;Justification as Appropriate
:The local use of naturally upwelling water is very appropriate.  The water does not need to be transported long distances by human based infrastructure.  As far as the Estanque itself is concerned, it was built out of locally excavated rock by what I assume to be local labor forces.

;Issues with the Appropriateness
:I'm sure that natural ecosystems and micro-climates had developed over the years due to the abundance of naturally errupting water.  Tapping into this flow and rediverting it has no doubt had an effect on the natural systems. Whenever the flow of water is altered, negative effects will result.  The extent of the negative results is hard to quantify, especially when balanced with the amount of life that is nurtured with this altered water flow.  One issue that Parras is facing is monocropping of water intensive pecan trees.  The over abundance of pecans is effecting the local economy and will continue to do so in the future.  Monocropping can also significantly deplete the health and vitality of the soil in the long term.

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:Estanque4.jpg|
|Image:Estanque3.jpg|
|Image:Estanque2.jpg|
|Image:Estanque1.jpg|
}}

===Irrigation of the Nuez===
;Description
:As this region is quite dry, those who have vegitation such as the massive nuez tree on their lands use an ingeneous method for irrigation. By creating a small pit known as surco, water is trapped during rain pour which slowly percalates into the soil eventually reaching the roots. This process can take anywhere from 2 to 4 days providing adequite moisture for weeks.      

;Location
:This type of irrigation is seen throughout Parras de la Fuente, however my example comes from the parking lot of the UTC. 

;Justification as Appropriate
:This region receives seasonal rainfall and has lead it's inhabitants to value this gift the skies above. This is a exemplary example of rainwater catchment and [[permaculture]]. 

;Issues with the Appropriateness
:Because this is a form agriculture, the implications of such a system are simple, a life support system is created between man and natural resource. In case of drought, the vital harvest that this population is suppported by could become an issue if not a catastrophic event.  

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:Image00001.jpg|
}}

===Instructions===
To add a new AT implementation to this resource, Copy and paste the following into notepad. Make the appropriate edits (replace allcap text) and then paste above the Instructions line in the edit window. 
{{Parras AT}}

[[Category:AT Photos]]  
[[Category:Parras AT]]
[[Category:Rainwater]]