<!--paste code here-->
===Instructions===
To add a new AT implementation to this resource, Copy and paste the following into notepad. Make the appropriate edits (replace allcap text) and then paste above the Instructions line in the edit window. 
{{Parras AT}}

===NAME OF TECHNOLOGY===
;Description
:The Front (and only) Desk in this section of the Centro de Salud

;Location
:In the western section of the hospital.

;Justification as Appropriate
:Well it certainly eliminates unnecessary complexity by keepin' it all in the family- everything is within arms reach!  The set up is economical and apparently durable- a testimony direct from the lips of the typewriter and the hanging file folder system.

;Issues with the Appropriateness
:When it's all you have to work with, the importance of questioning the "appropriateness" pales visibly and rapidly.

{{Gallery
|width=290
|height=218
|lines=0
|Image:IMG_3275.jpg|
|Image:typewriter.jpg|
|Image:hangingfiles.jpg|
}}

===Clothesline at the Hospital===
;Description
:These are the clothes used in surgery at the Centro de Salud.  
;Location
:On the north end of town.

;Justification as Appropriate
:They are sterilized, then hung out to dry.  Hmmmm... it brings up concerns of absolute cleanliness in my american mind, but when the doctors are hanging on to their pens with both hands for lack of supply, one doesn't have to wonder too much more about appropriateness of a clothesline.

{{Gallery
|width=400
|height=300
|lines=0
|Image:IMG_3264.jpg|
}}

[[Category:AT Photos]]
[[Category:Parras AT]]
[[Category:Health and safety]]
[[Category:Medical care]]