'''Please do not use PDF document files for [[knowledge sharing]].'''

PDFs are a [[proprietary format]] - they are not an [[open standard]]. If you want people to be able to access the contents and use it freely, under an [[open license]], the PDF format makes it very difficult for them. (It's possible, but requires suitable software to do it efficiently, and even then it has been a major hindrance to Appropedia's [[Appropedia:Porting|porting]] efforts, by which we share valuable knowledge which is currently locked up in organizations' documents.)

If you must use PDFs for publishing, it is important to:
* Develop the document first in a more open format, then convert to PDF and tweak the formatting.
* Use PDF/A, the ‘archival’ format for PDF. which reduces future migration requirements. See [http://lgwebnetwork.org/2009/09/28/formats-for-long-term-preservation-of-information-guest-post-from-cassie-findlay/ Formats for long term preservation of information].

== Viewing ==

'''PDF''' or '''Portable Document Format''' files cannot be viewed natively with a browser. Viewing PDF requires your computer to have Adobe Acrobat Reader or [[Wikipedia:List of PDF software|compatible software]].  Once the PDF viewing software is installed, browser viewing of PDFs is typically enabled via "plug-ins" for popular browsers.

== See also ==

* [[Help:Porting PDF files to MediaWiki]]

==External links==
* [http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readermain.html Adobe Acrobat Reader] - for more information.
* [http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep2.html Download the latest version of Adobe Reader]
* [[Wikipedia:List of PDF software]] - list of compatible software for reading and editing.
* [[Wikipedia:Portable Document Format]] - information about the PDF open file format.

[[Category:Appropedia help]]