{{MOST}}
{{Pearce-pubs}}

* Aishwarya S. Mundada, Emily W. Prehoda, Joshua M. Pearce.  [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2016.11.034 U.S. market for solar photovoltaic plug-and-play systems]. ''Renewable Energy''. 103 (2017) pp. 255–264. DOI:10.1016/j.renene.2016.11.034 [https://www.academia.edu/29941674/U.S._Market_for_Solar_Photovoltaic_Plug-and-Play_Systems open access]

* B.T. Wittbrodt & J.M. Pearce. [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.esd.2016.08.001 3-D printing solar photovoltaic racking in developing world]. ''Energy for Sustainable Development'' 36, pp. 1-5 (2017). DOI:10.1016/j.esd.2016.08.001 [https://www.academia.edu/29779538/3-D_Printing_Solar_Photovoltaic_Racking_in_Developing_World open access]

* Aishwarya S. Mundada, , Yuenyong Nilsiam , Joshua M. Pearce. [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2016.06.002 A review of technical requirements for plug-and-play solar photovoltaic microinverter systems in the United States].  ''Solar Energy'' '''135''', (2016), pp. 455–470. doi: 10.1016/j.solener.2016.06.002 [https://www.academia.edu/26379506/A_Review_of_Technical_Requirements_for_Plug-and-Play_Solar_Photovoltaic_Microinverter_Systems_in_the_United_States open access]

* Jephias Gwamuri, Dhiogo Franco, Khalid Y. Khan, Lucia Gauchia and Joshua M. Pearce. [http://www.mdpi.com/2075-1702/4/1/3/html High-Efficiency Solar-Powered 3-D Printers for Sustainable Development]. ''Machines'' 2016, '''4'''(1), 3; doi: 10.3390/machines4010003 [https://www.academia.edu/20326034/High-Efficiency_Solar-Powered_3-D_Printers_for_Sustainable_Development open access]

* Svetlana V. Obydenkova and Joshua M. Pearce. [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2015.12.036 Technical viability of mobile solar photovoltaic systems for indigenous nomadic communities in northern latitudes]. ''Renewable Energy'', 89,253–267 (2016). DOI:10.1016/j.renene.2015.12.036 [https://www.academia.edu/19768317/Technical_viability_of_mobile_solar_photovoltaic_systems_for_indigenous_nomadic_communities_in_northern_latitudes open access]

* Harshavardhan Dinesh, Joshua M. Pearce, The potential of agrivoltaic systems, ''Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews'', '''54''', 299-308 (2016). DOI:[http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2015.10.024 10.1016/j.rser.2015.10.024], [https://www.academia.edu/18406368/The_potential_of_agrivoltaic_systems open access]

* Z. Du, D. Denkenberger, J.M. Pearce, Solar photovoltaic powered on-site ammonia production for nitrogen fertilization, ''Solar Energy'', 122, 562-568 (2015). http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2015.09.035 [https://www.academia.edu/18120043/Solar_photovoltaic_powered_on-site_ammonia_production_for_nitrogen_fertilization open access]

* Heidari, N., Gwamuri, J., Townsend, T.,Pearce, J.M. (2015). Impact of Snow and Ground Interference on Photovoltaic Electric System Performance. ''IEEE Journal of Photovoltaics'' '''5'''(6),1680-1685, (2015). doi: [http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JPHOTOV.2015.2466448 10.1109/JPHOTOV.2015.2466448] [https://www.academia.edu/17524663/Impact_of_Snow_and_Ground_Interference_on_Photovoltaic_Electric_System_Performance open access]

* Andrews, R.W.; Pollard, A.; Pearce, J.M., "Photovoltaic System Performance Enhancement With Nontracking Planar Concentrators: Experimental Results and Bidirectional Reflectance Function (BDRF)-Based Modeling," ''IEEE Journal of Photovoltaics'' 5(6), pp.1626-1635 (2015). DOI: [http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JPHOTOV.2015.2478064 10.1109/JPHOTOV.2015.2478064] [https://www.academia.edu/16836963/Photovoltaic_System_Performance_Enhancement_With_Non-Tracking_Planar_Concentrators_Experimental_Results_and_Bi-Directional_Reflectance_Function_BDRF_Based_Modelling open access]

* Kunal K. Shah, Aishwarya S. Mundada, Joshua M. Pearce. Performance of U.S. hybrid distributed energy systems: Solar photovoltaic, battery and combined heat and power. ''Energy Conversion and Management'' '''105''', pp. 71–80 (2015). [https://www.academia.edu/14674492/Performance_of_U.S._hybrid_distributed_energy_systems_Solar_photovoltaic_battery_and_combined_heat_and_power  open access] DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2015.07.048

* Joseph Rozario and Joshua M. Pearce, Optimization of annealing cycles for electric output in outdoor conditions for amorphous silicon photovoltaic–thermal systems.  Applied Energy, 148, pp. 134–141 (2015). DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2015.03.073 [https://www.academia.edu/11720642/Optimization_of_annealing_cycles_for_electric_output_in_outdoor_conditions_for_amorphous_silicon_photovoltaic_thermal_systems open access preprint]

* J.M. Pathak, P.G. Sanders, J. M. Pearce, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2014.01.041. Optimizing limited solar roof access by exergy analysis of solar thermal, photovoltaic, and hybrid photovoltaic thermal systems], ''Applied Energy'', 120, pp. 115-124 (2014). [https://www.academia.edu/6105926/Optimizing_limited_solar_roof_access_by_exergy_analysis_of_solar_thermal_photovoltaic_and_hybrid_photovoltaic_thermal_systems Open access]

* J. Rozario, A.H. Vora, S.K. Debnath, M.J.M. Pathak, J.M. Pearce, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2014.02.029 The effects of dispatch strategy on electrical performance of amorphous silicon-based solar photovoltaic-thermal systems], ''Renewable Energy'' 68, pp. 459–465 (2014). [https://www.academia.edu/6400569/The_effects_of_dispatch_strategy_on_electrical_performance_of_amorphous_silicon-based_solar_photovoltaic-thermal_systems open access]

* M.P. Brennan, A.L. Abramase, R.W. Andrews, J. M. Pearce, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.solmat.2014.01.046 Effects of spectral albedo on solar photovoltaic devices], ''Solar Energy Materials and Solar Cells'', 124, pp. 111-116,(2014).&nbsp; [https://www.academia.edu/6222506/Effects_of_spectral_albedo_on_solar_photovoltaic_devices open access]

* Andrews, Rob W.; Pollard, Andrew; Pearce, Joshua M., "[http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/PVSC.2013.6744136 Photovoltaic system performance enhancement with non-tracking planar concentrators: Experimental results and BDRF based modelling]," ''Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (PVSC), 2013 IEEE 39th'', pp.0229,0234, 16-21 June 2013. doi: 10.1109/PVSC.2013.6744136

* O. Ormachea&nbsp;; A. Abrahamse&nbsp;; N. Tolavi&nbsp;; F. Romero&nbsp;; O. Urquidi&nbsp;; J. M. Pearce&nbsp;; R. Andrews; [http://proceedings.spiedigitallibrary.org/proceeding.aspx?articleid=1782233 Installation of a variable-angle spectrometer system for monitoring diffuse and global solar radiation]. ''Proc. SPIE 8785, 8th Iberoamerican Optics Meeting and 11th Latin American Meeting on Optics, Lasers, and Applications'', 87850M (November 18, 2013); DOI: [http://dx.doi.org/10.1117/12.2025480 http://dx.doi.org/10.1117/12.2025480]

* Z. Dereli, C. Yücedağ and J. M. Pearce, “[http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2013.06.019 Simple and Low-Cost Method of Planning for Tree Growth and Lifetime Effects on Solar Photovoltaic Systems Performance]”, ''Solar Energy'', '''95''', pp.300-307 (2013). [http://www.academia.edu/4074627/Simple_and_low-cost_method_of_planning_for_tree_growth_and_lifetime_effects_on_solar_photovoltaic_systems_performance open access]

* R. W. Andrews, A. Pollard, J. M. Pearce, “[http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2013.02.014 The Effects of Snowfall on Solar Photovoltaic Performance] ”, ''Solar Energy'' '''92''', 8497 (2013).&nbsp;&nbsp; [http://www.academia.edu/3193083/The_Effects_of_Snowfall_on_Solar_Photovoltaic_Performance open access]

* H.T. Nguyen and J.M. Pearce, “[http://hdl.handle.net/2297/33112 Automated Quantification of Solar Photovoltaic Potential in Cities]” ''International Review for Spatial Planning and Sustainable Development'' '''1'''(1), 57-70 (2013).. [http://www.academia.edu/2370076/Automated_Quantification_of_Solar_Photovoltaic_Potential_in_Cities Open access]

* A.H. Nosrat, L.G. Swan, J.M. Pearce, "[http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2012.11.005 Improved Performance of Hybrid Photovoltaic-Trigeneration Systems Over Photovoltaic-Cogen Systems Including Effects of Battery Storage]", ''Energy'' '''49''', pp. 366-374 (2013). [http://www.academia.edu/2337798/Improved_Performance_of_Hybrid_Photovoltaic-Trigeneration_Systems_Over_Photovoltaic-Cogen_Systems_Including_Effects_of_Battery_Storage open access].

* Omar Ormachea, Faviola Romero, Oscar Urquidi, Augusta Abrahamse, Joshua Pearce, Matthew de Vuono, Rob Andrews. Desarrollo de un sistema de monitoreo de radiación solar basado en un espectrómetro de amplio espectro y análisis de resultados preliminares. ''Procedings of the Simposio Nacional en Energías Renovables'', Cochabamba, Bolivia, 2012. pages 97-104. [https://www.academia.edu/26042563/Desarrollo_de_un_sistema_de_monitoreo_de_radiaci%C3%B3n_solar_basado_en_un_espectr%C3%B3metro_de_amplio_espectro_y_an%C3%A1lisis_de_resultados_preliminares open access]

* R. Andrews, A. Pollard, J. M. Pearce, “[http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2012.04.016 Improved parametric empirical determination of module short circuit current for modelling and optimization of solar photovoltaic systems]”, ''Solar Energy ''86, 2240-2254 (2012). [https://www.academia.edu/1846754/Improved_parametric_empirical_determination_of_module_short_circuit_current_for_modelling_and_optimization_of_solar_photovoltaic_systems open access]

* R. W. Andrews and J.M. Pearce “[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6318297 Prediction of energy effects on photovoltaic systems due to snowfall events]", in: ''2012 38th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (PVSC)''. Presented at the 2012 38th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (PVSC), pp. 003386 –003391. [http://www.academia.edu/1991659/Prediction_of_Energy_Effects_on_Photovoltaic_Systems_due_to_Snowfall_Events open access]

* Ha T. Nguyen, Joshua M. Pearce, Rob Harrap, and Gerald Barber, “[http://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/12/4/4534/pdf The Application of LiDAR to Assessment of Rooftop Solar Photovoltaic Deployment Potential on a Municipal District Unit]”, ''Sensors'', 12, pp. 4534-4558 (2012). [https://www.academia.edu/1504415/The_Application_of_LiDAR_to_Assessment_of_Rooftop_Solar_Photovoltaic_Deployment_Potential_on_a_Municipal_District_Unit open access]

* H. T. Nguyen and J. M. Pearce, “[http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2012.01.017 Incorporating Shading Losses in Solar Photovoltaic Potential Assessment at the Municipal Scale]” ''Solar Energy'' 86(5), pp. 1245–1260 (2012). [https://www.academia.edu/1499891/Incorporating_Shading_Losses_in_Solar_Photovoltaic_Potential_Assessment_at_the_Municipal_Scale Open access]

* Joshua M. Pearce, Adegboyega Babasola, Rob Andrews, “[http://nciia.org/sites/default/files/features/conference/2012/papers/Pearce-Babasola-Andrews-queensu.pdf Open Solar Photovoltaic Systems Optimization]” ''Proceedings of the 16th Annual National Collegiate Inventors and Innovators Alliance Conference'', Open 2012, pp. 1-7. [https://www.academia.edu/1498481/Open_Solar_Photovoltaic_Systems_Optimization open access]

* Faviola Romero, Oscar Urquidi, Omar Ormachea, Augusta Abrahamse, Joshua Pearce, Rob Andrews, Matthew de Vuono, “[http://www.upb.edu/sites/default/files/8Art-Ormachea-Solar-WebS1.pdf DESARROLLO DE UN SISTEMA DE MONITOREO DE RADIACIÓN SOLAR BASADO EN UN ESPECTRÓMETRO DE AMPLIO ESPECTRO] (DEVELOPMENT OF A SOLAR RADIATION MONITORING BASED ON A WIDE RANGE SPECTROMETER), ''INVESTIGACIÓN & DESARROLLO'' 11: pp. 73 – 84 (2011).

* Rob Andrews, Nabeil Alazzam, and Joshua M. Pearce, “[http://mtu.academia.edu/JoshuaPearce/Papers/1850930/Model_of_Loss_Mechanisms_for_Low_Optical_Concentratioon_on_Solar_Photovoltaic_Arrays_with_Planar_Reflectors Model of Loss Mechanisms for Low Optical  Concentratioon on Solar Photovoltaic Arrays with Planar Reflectors]”, ''40th American Solar Energy Society National Solar Conference Proceedings,&nbsp;'' pp. 446-453 (2011)''.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ''

* H.T. Nguyen and J.M. Pearce. “Towards Automated Quantification of Solar Photovoltaic Potential in Large Urban Areas for City-based Electric Utility Planning”. ''Proceedings of the International Conference 2011 on Spatial Planning and Sustainable Development''. Kanazawa, Japan A31-3 (2011).

* Amir Nosrat and Joshua M. Pearce, “[http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2011.02.044 Dispatch strategy and model for hybrid photovoltaic and trigeneration power systems]”, ''Applied Energy'' 88 (2011) 3270–3276. [https://www.academia.edu/1485012/Dispatch_Strategy_and_Model_for_Hybrid_Photovoltaic_and_Trigeneration_Power_Systems open access]

* M. Mostofi, A. H. Nosrat, and J. M. Pearce, “[http://www.ijest.org/?_action=articleInfo&article=473 Institutional-Scale Operational Symbiosis of Photovoltaic and Cogeneration Energy Systems]” ''International Journal of Environmental Science and Technology'' 8(1), pp. 31-44, 2011. [https://www.academia.edu/1513335/Institutional-Scale_Operational_Symbiosis_of_Photovoltaic_and_Cogeneration_Energy_Systems open access]

* Joshua M. Pearce, “Rooftop Solar Photovoltaic Evaluation and Mobile Energy Audit”, ''Report for CanmetENERGY of Natural Resources Canada'', SET126373X (March, 2011).

* E. Lee, A. H. Nosrat, and J. M. Pearce, “Potential of Using Renewable Energy Technologies for Tehran’s Public Transportation Sector”, ''18th Annual International Conference on Mechanical Engineering-ISME2010'', 11-13 May, 2010, Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, Iran, ISME2010-3643, pp. 1-6.

* H.T. Nguyen and J.M. Pearce, “[http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2010.02.009 Estimating Potential Photovoltaic Yield with r.sun and the Open Source Geographical Resources Analysis Support System]” ''Solar Energy'' 84, pp. 831-843, 2010. [https://www.academia.edu/1485006/Estimating_Potential_Photovoltaic_Yield_with_r.sun_and_the_Open_Source_Geographical_Resources_Analysis_Support_System open access]

* L.K. Wiginton, H. T. Nguyen, J.M. Pearce, “[http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compenvurbsys.2010.01.001 Quantifying rooftop solar photovoltaic potential for regional renewable energy policy]”, ''Computers, Environment and Urban Systems'' 34, (2010) pp. 345-357. [https://www.academia.edu/1484567/Quantifying_rooftop_solar_photovoltaic_potential_for_regional_renewable_energy_policy open access]

* J. M. Pearce, “[http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2009.08.012 Expanding Photovoltaic Penetration with Residential Distributed Generation from Hybrid Solar Photovoltaic + Combined Heat and Power Systems”], ''Energy'' 34, pp. 1947-1954 (2009). [https://www.academia.edu/1485040/Expanding_Photovoltaic_Penetration_with_Residential_Distributed_Generation_from_Hybrid_Solar_Photovoltaic_Combined_Heat_and_Power_Systems open access]

* J.M. Pearce, “Household-Scale Cogen + Solar Photovoltaic Hybrid Systems: Effects on Penetration and Storage for Eastern Ontario”, ''Proceedings of the 4th Annual Canadian Solar Buildings Conference''. p. 2, 2009.

* P. Derewonko and J.M. Pearce, “[http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/PVSC.2009.5411247 Optimizing Design of Household Scale Hybrid Solar Photovoltaic + Combined Heat and Power Systems for Ontario]”, ''Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (PVSC), 2009 34th IEEE'', pp.1274-1279, 7-12 June 2009. [https://www.academia.edu/1512434/Optimizing_Design_of_Household_Scale_Hybrid_Solar_Photovoltaic_Combined_Heat_and_Power_Systems_for_Ontario open access] [http://www.mse.mtu.edu/%7Epearce/papers/IEEE/2009%20IEEE%20PVSC%20pv+chp.pdf ]
[[category:Pearce publications]]
[[category:photovoltaics]]
[[category:solar energy]]