== Self Learning ==

If you're comfortable doing a bit of research and applying plenty of trial and error then this is a great option and thanks to the Internet there are a ton of resources out there about permaculture. It's a good idea to get in touch with other local permies so join up with your local group.

== Introduction to Permaculture ==

This is typically a 2-day workshop combining an overview of permaculture and some hands on workshops. This is the ideal course for people new to permaculture who want a better understanding of permaculture as a whole and take away some practical skills.

== Permaculture Design Certificate (PDC) ==

The PDC was devised by Bill Mollison, one of the founders of Permaculture, as the way to spread knowledge about Permaculture. It's an intensive 72 hour course typically over 10 days and usually available both full-time (2 weeks) or part-time (weekends).

A PDC covers all major subject areas of Permaculture and leaves the graduate with the tools to start doing their own designs and to apply permaculture principles in their lives. Most courses combine theory, practical exercises, individual and/or group projects (design and part-implement) and site visits which I think most PDC graduates would agree is over all too quickly!

It was always intended that after a number years practicing as a designer that PDC graduates could also become teachers themselves. Hence spreading Permaculture further and further.

This course is highly recommended and can literally be a life changer. You can take the skills gained and apply in your own backyard, your business, or even take a change in career direction and become a permaculture practitioner.

PDC Course Outline

* Introduction
* Principles of Design
* Patterns in Design
* Landscape & Climate
* Soils
* Water
* Buildings
* Alternative Energy Sources & IT
* Waste Recycling
* Plants & Trees
* Animals
* Aquaculture
* Techniques
* Networking

== Accredited Permaculture Training (APT) ==

In July 2003 the first nationally accredited qualifications in permaculture were approved by the Australian National Training Authority (ANTA). The new training, known as Accredited Permaculture Training (APT), is owned and administered by Permaculture International Ltd.

There are five qualifications on offer under APT – Certificates I,II, III & IV in Permaculture and Diploma of Permaculture. Certificate I is suitable for beginners, from secondary school age upwards.   The Diploma is for experienced professional practitioners.

People who have completed a Permaculture Design Course, (PDC) will receive appropriate credits towards the new qualifications. APT™ has been designed to recognise and build on current training in permaculture, including the PDC.

More information about APT, qualifications, and course contents is available on the [http://permacultureaustralia.org.au/apt/ Permaculture International Ltd website].

{{attrib pawa|resources/education|Education}}

[[Category:Permaculture]]