[http://www.permacultureaction.org/ Permaculture Action Network] organizes Permaculture Action Days that catalyze social change and ecological regeneration. Audiences from concerts and music events come together to build, plant and create projects like urban farms, community gardens, food forests, and natural buildings in their communities. 

==About==
The goal of the Permaculture Action Network is to inspire and empower people with the tools and know how of co-creating a sustainable and regenerative world. Permaculture Action Network '''partners with musicians to empower their fans to action!'''

The Permaculture Action Network organizes Permaculture Action Days that catalyze social change and ecological regeneration. Audiences from concerts and music events come together to build, plant and create projects like urban farms, community gardens, food forests, and natural buildings in their communities.

This network will be one step of many in making our cities greener, healthier, and happier places to live through permaculture and community action! 

Permaculture practices we will be sharing:
*Regenerative Land Care
*Organic Food Growing
*Food Forests and Perennial Polycultures
*Natural Building
*Rainwater Catchment and Greywater Recycling
*Compost and Soil Building
*Appropriate Technology
*Neighborhood Placemaking
*Transforming the Urban Landscape
*Living in Community

==Get Involved==
Permaculture Action Network is a people-powered organization, and with limited funds over the last few years they have accomplished so much!  They are seeking financial support to be able to continue partnering with musicians and artists to put on more Permaculture Action Days with a wider diversity of participants.

This organization is active on TheXPollinators: 
;Get involved by visiting the CrossPollination Pad - http://thexpollinators.com/permacultureaction

==History==
In October 2014, The Polish Ambassador went on tour with a team of permaculture educators and community organizers to bring “Pushing Through the Pavement: A Permaculture Action Tour” to major cities across the United States.  Permaculture Action Network hosted 33 Action Days in 33 cities, across 20 different states over a 6 week period.  These action days brought out fans from the Polish Ambassador shows to the farm/eco-village/food forest/urban garden to get their hands dirty. Through a focus on community organizing and earth based practices, the tour empowered people with the tools needed to bring about a regenerative way of living.

The Permaculture Action Tour will be connecting a network of local organizations, permaculture groups, sustainability educators, and food growers that can put the principles of permaculture into action through on-the-ground projects and re-skilling. The Polish Ambassador audience members will be encouraged to join “Impact Days” on urban sites following each show that will be immersions focused on sustainability, food justice, ecological education, and regenerative living practices. Along with hard skills like growing food, collecting rainwater, and building structures, the tour will introduce the equally important aspects of social permaculture: how to work in collaborative groups and organize locally, make decisions, and communicate effectively.


[[Category:Organizations]]
[[Category:Permaculture organizations]]