'''Petroleum''' or '''crude oil''' is a naturally occuring liquid. Petroleum has been sequestered since hundreds of millions of years, meaning that when burned, it reintroduces CO² into the atmosphere (hereby contributing to global warming). According to Rob Hopkins of [[Transition culture]], petroleum was the most important substance during the 20th century and the current transition from a petroleum-based economy to a post-petroleum economy may well be one of the most important changes in the history of mankind.

==Products made from it==
From petroleum, several fuels are derived including LPG, butane, gasoline, jet fuel, kerosene, fuel oil (basically unrefined petroleum) and Diesel fuel.  

Besides fuels, other products are also made from it, knowingly:
*[[Alkenes]] (ie for the manufacture of plastics or other compounds)
*[[Lubricant]]s (ie machine/motor oils, and [[grease]])
*[[Wax]] (for packaging [[frozen food]]s, among others)
*[[Sulfur]]/[[Sulfuric acid]]
*Bulk [[tar]].
*[[Asphalt]]
*[[Petroleum coke]], used in speciality carbon products or as solid fuel.
*[[Paraffin wax]]
*[[Aromatic]] [[petrochemical]]s to be used as precursors in other [[chemical]] production.
* ? for the production of ammonium/potassium nitrate (used for fertilizers and pesticides)

==Alternative products for petroleum-derived products==
* See [[biomass]] and [[biofuel]] for fuels, for non-fuel transport options see [[Appropriate_transport_manual|Sustainable transport]]
* See [[Bioplastics]] (or other materials) as a alternative for plastic
* See [[plant fats and oils]] as an alternative to machine/motor oils/grease
* See [[concrete]] as an alternative to asphalt
* See [[beeswax]], [[tar]], [[resin]], ... as an alternative to wax
* See [[green manure]] and [[feces]] as an alternative to nitrate-based fertilizers

==The upside of gas prices' going up==
While it's as fun as a sever beating there are some good things about gas prices going up though it's best not to share them with most people (don't you dare tell an Independent trucker driver you're glad gas prices are going up).  Here's a list of ten of them. [http://www.time.com/time/specials/packages/article/0,28804,1819594_1819592_1819590,00.html]

== See also ==
* [[Peak oil]]

[[Category:Fossil fuels]]
[[Category:Energy]]