{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Asia
|Image=Phoenix infant warmer.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Many infants suffer complications immediately after birth due to the lack of a consistent heat source. This is especially true for low-resource settings, where the majority of children are born at home and do not have the resources to provide their newborn with the necessary care immediately after birth.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The infant radiant warmer is a mobile, battery powered device that addresses severe heat loss suffered by some infants by allowing the infant’s bed to be uniformly heated. This is done by infrared radiation (IR) from a quartz heater that is beamed by a parabolic reflector uniformly over an infant’s bed.  The device has a sensitive thermostat that does not require calibration to use it. The control panel can sense the infant’s temperature quickly through the use of a highly sensitive thermistor probe.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Phoenix Total Maternal and Infant Care
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location: India

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
India

==Funding Source==
Phoenix Total Maternal and Infant Care

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===


===Other internally generated reports===
Infant Radiant Warmer. Phoenix Medical Systems Private Limited. Retrieved October 31, 2013 from [http://www.phoenixmedicalsystems.com/products/infant-care-products/warming-systems?page=shop.product_details&category_id=3&product_id=4 here.]

===Externally generated reports===
Phoenix Infant Radiant Warmer and Open Care Warmer. (2013, January 11). Retrieved October 31, 2013 from [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/phoenix-infant-radiant-warmer-and-open-care-warmer here.]

===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->