{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Pre-eclampsia is a major cause of maternal and infant mortality. Although medical equipment exists that can detect high blood pressure during the early stages of pregnancy, many women in resource-limited settings do not have access to equipment that could help detect the onset of pre-eclampsia. 
==Detailed description of the solution==
This device integrates pulse oximetry, a method which shoots light waves through a patient’s finger to determine blood oxygen levels, with software that can be downloaded into a cell phone. By using these mechanisms, this device can track the mother’s oxygen levels, a critical measure for accurately predicting pre-eclampsia. By combining these two mechanisms, this mobile pre-eclampsia risk assessment device can overcome barriers found in low resource settings such as a lack of skilled medical workers and minimal accessible medical facilities. 
==Designed by==
*Designed by: Mark Ansermino and Peter von Dadelszen, clinician scientists the Child and Family Research Institute at the University of British Columbia
*Manufacturer location: Vancouver, BC Canada
 
==Funding Source==
Finalist of Saving Lives at Birth competition

==References==

===Externally generated reports===
Hume, M., & Koring, P. (2011, July 28). Canadian innovators win global competition to tackle maternal health. Retrieved from [http://www.theglobeandmail.com/life/health-and-fitness/canadian-innovators-win-global-competition-to-tackle-maternal-health/article4192722/ here]

PIERS on the move: Pre-eclampsia integrated estimate of risk assessment on a mobile phone. (2011). Retrieved from [http://savinglivesatbirth.net/summaries/37 here]

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->