{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, North America
|Image=Phototherapy Light Meter.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Phototherapy is the most common form of therapy for jaundice in newborns. However, it is difficult to measure the amount of light waves that penetrate the newborn’s skin. In addition, these phototherapy units cost more than $2,000, a cost too high to be utilized in low-resource settings.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This phototherapy light meter allows physicians to determine the effectiveness of phototherapy lights. The light meters allow technicians to identify the amount of light that is given off in the spectrum of visible light. In addition, these meters also have filters that can block interference. In this way, these light meters can be used to validate the irradiance of tube-based phototherapy devices.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Ron Newton, chief technical consultant for Global Healing
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location: Berkely, CA, USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
This device has been implemented in a range of locations, such as areas that speak English, Spanish, French, Russian, Swahili, Thai, Arabic and Chinese.

==Funding Source==
Global Healing

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===

===Other internally generated reports===
Phototherapy Light Meter. Retrieved October 31, 2013 from [http://www.globalhealing.org/ourwork/meter.html here].

===Externally generated reports===
Global Healing to Donate Life-Saving Phototherapy Light Meters to Developing Countries. (2010, October 4). Retrieved October 31, 2013 from [http://www.marketwired.com/press-release/Global-Healing-Donate-Life-Saving-Phototherapy-Light-Meters-Developing-Countries-1328851.htm here.]

Phototherapy Light Meter. (2013, January 11). Retrieved October 31, 2013 from [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/phototherapy-light-meter here.]

===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->