Along with [[Turpentine]], another by-product of the distillation of Pine tree resins.  

* Used in rural setting with [[Chickens]] to prevent picking or as an additive to [[soap]].

* As an ingrediant in [[skin lotion]]

* It is also used for veterinary purposes, in hoof moisture retention of horses, cattle and sheep and for pharmaceutical purposes as treatment of different kinds of skin diseases

* Any soap recipe can be made into pine tar soap. It's a matter of adding the pine tar to the recipe you have chosen.  The easiest method is to add the pine tar to the melting oils at the beginning. You can buy pine tar at a feed store... it is used on horses hooves for conditioning purposes (and be sure to read the label and make sure it is 100% pine tar and not pine rosin). To save on cleanup later... use a disposable spoon to get the tar out of the container (a stout plastic spoon or even a wooden popsicle stick will hopefully do the trick) and drop the spoonfuls into the melting oils. They should break up as the fats melt and warm up and you can incorporate the tar into the fats. I'd be sure they are completely blended in before proceeding with the lye solution, etc. and you will still want to check for correct temps as usual. Pine Tar soap tends to come to trace more quickly than soap without it, so you might do well to go with a higher water addition rate for the recipe rather than the low end suggestions. For recipes on this site... around 32 ounces of water would be good. For a recipe that makes 28 bars like the ones on this page... you will likely want to add about 6 to 7 ounces of pine tar to the pot with the base oils. Scenting is kind of a moot point because the soap will cure out with the scent of pine (less tar with aging ). If you decide to scent along with the natural smell of the pine tar... pick something that will blend well with that or enhance it... and you'll have to move quickly since the soap is going to want to set up quickly and you'll have little time for extra fussing around. Essential oils might be better behaved since you are already going to have soap with a tendency toward accelerated trace. Another comment was that pine tar soap took longer to harden up during cure, but once hard that it was very long lasting.

== External links ==
*[[Wikipedia:Pinetar]] - almost exclusively about baseball
[[Category:Agriculture]]

==See also==
*[[Fencing]]