{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=HIV/AIDS
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Pocket.png
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Early detection of HIV can help to effectively control the spread of the virus. Existing diagnostic systems, especially enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (aka ELISA), are bulky, expensive, and require electricity, lengthy incubation periods, and multiple pipetting stages.  The POCKET combines the immunoassay unit and the detector unit into a portable and cost-effective model.

==Detailed description of the solution==
A blood sample is delivered to each channel of the device and is analyzed by an antibody-detecting strip. Protein fragments on the strip bind HIV antibodies. A series of rapid, yet precise chemical assays are performed on detected antibodies for identification and quantification.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: The Whitesides Research Group at Harvard University.  Their home page is found [http://gmwgroup.harvard.edu/index.php here].
*Manufacturing: Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
The prototype was developed in 2004 at Harvard, and as of 2004, Harvard University’s Office for Technology and Trademark Licensing has been negotiating with a start-up firm to commercialize the POCKET.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Linder, V., Sia, S.K., &d Whitesides, G.M.  (2005). Reagent-loaded cartridges for valveless and automated fluid delivery in microfluidic devices. Anal Chem, 77(1), 64-71.

Sia, S.K., Linder, V., Parviz, B.A., Siegel, A., & Whitesides, G.M. (2004). An integrated approach to portable and low-cost immunoassay for resource-poor settings. Angew Chem Int Ed Engl,  43(4), 498-502. PDF can be found [http://gmwgroup.harvard.edu/pubs/pdf/889.pdf here].