{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa
|Image=Portable exam table.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Women have limited opportunities to see a gynecologist in rural Ghana, where access to care, health resources and personnel are scarce.  In order for a physician to practice effectively, it is crucial for him/her to have an adequate examination table especially in limited-resource settings.  Exams are difficult without a proper examination table.
 
==Detailed description of the solution==
The device is a portable table designed to be carried in a backpack. The device has an adjustable trunk height and collapsible frame. The device is also padded and includes stirrups.

==Design==
*Design: The Portable Exam Table was designed at the University of Michigan.  The idea was first developed by a group of 12 undergraduate students during the summer of 2008 in Ghana.  Link available [http://deepblue.lib.umich.edu/handle/2027.42/62472 here].

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
This device was tested and surveyed in Ghana.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Perosky, Joseph E., Adam P. Gienapp, Rebecca N. Rabban, Anthony A. Ofosu, James G. T. Bradshaw, and Kathleen H. Sienko. "Designing a Portable Gynecological Examination Table: Improving Access to Antenatal Care in Rural Ghana." International Journal for Service Learning in Engineering 7.1 (2012): 1-14. Print.

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->