{{Tocright}}
Energy is a property of physics that can be a little hard to describe completely. The most common definition is one that will work well for us. Energy is the ability to do work. 

Power is just a rate of that work being done. Specifically, power is rate of energy per time (e.g. power generation, power consumption, etc.). 

==Energy = Power x Time==

Energy equals power times time, i.e. <tt>'''E=P*t'''</tt>.
Where:
*Energy is the ability to do work.
*Power is the rate at which work is performed.

{| border=1 cellspacing=0 cellpadding=5 |
!
!Symbol
!Description
!In Water
!In Electricity
!Base Units
|----
!Power
|  P
|Rate at which work is performed
|[[:Category:Microhydro|Power=Current*Pressure]] (P=Q*H)
|[[Electricity basics|Power=Current*Voltage]] (P=I*V)
| kg•m²/s³
|----
!Energy
|  E
|The ability to do work
|Energy=Power*Time (E=P*t)
|Energy=Power*Time (E=P*t)
| kg•m²/s²
|----
|}

==Common units of Energy and Power==

<center>
{| border=1 cellspacing=0 cellpadding=5 
!colspan="2" align="center"| Common Units of Energy and Power 
|-
! Energy 
! Power 
|- 
| joule
| joule/sec  
|- 
| calorie
| calorie/min  
|- 
| Btu
| Btu/hour  
|- 
| [[#*Oranges|orange]]*
| orange/day  
|- 
| watt-hour
| watt  
|- 
| kilowatt-hour
| kilowatt  
|}
</center>


===*Oranges===
Okay so oranges are a made up unit of energy.  But it could be a unit of energy.  According to the [http://www.nal.usda.gov/fnic/foodcomp/cgi-bin/list_nut_edit.pl USDA], one medium sized, 2-5/8" diameter orange, weighing 121g, has 59 Calories.  And, because people in the USA do not want to think they are eating thousands of calories per serving, a Calorie is actually a kilocalorie, so one medium sized orange has 59,000 calories.  So <tt>'''1 orange = 59,000 calories'''</tt> and <tt>'''1 orange/day = 40.97 calories/minute'''</tt> (take a moment to calculate this).

===So why do people have a problem with watts===
Watts are a rate.  One watt is equal to one joule per second, i.e. <tt>'''1 W = 1 J/s'''</tt>, but there is no unit of time in the name.  Likewise one kilowatt-hour is a quantity with no explicit time.  In fact, one kilowatt-hour equals 3,600,000 joules ''(take a moment to calculate this)''. One kWh could be an appliance drawing:
*1 kW for 1 hour
*2 kW for .5 hours
*1 W for 1000 hours (remember that the little k signifies kilo and means 1000x)

Example:

If you turn on 4 light bulbs, each rated at 25 W, how long can they be on before you reach 1 kWh?

<math>4 bulbs \times \frac{25W}{bulb} = 100 W </math>

<math>E = P\times t  \Rightarrow  t = \frac{E}{P}  \Rightarrow  \frac{1 kWh}{100W} = \frac{1kWh}{.1kW} = 10 hours </math>

===Kilowatt hour aka kWh===
A kilowatt is just 1000 watts (kilo means 1000x).  A kWh is 1000 watt hours.

Example:

How many kilowatt hours would be needed to run one 60W incandescent bulb for 100 hours?

<math> 60 W \times 100 hours = 6,000 watt hours </math>

and 

<math> 6,000 watthours \times \frac{1 kilowatt}{1000 watts} = 6 kilowatthours = 6 kWh </math> 

Electric energy consumption is usually metered and billed in kWh.

===Analogies===
Energy is a measurable quantity like distance.  Power is a rate like speed.
<center>
{| border=1 cellspacing=0 cellpadding=5 
!  
! Units
! Analog
! Units 
|- 
! Energy
| kWh
| Distance
| miles  
|- 
! Power
| W  
| Speed
| MPH
|}
</center>

===Conversions===
<center>
{| border=1 cellspacing=0 cellpadding=5
!
!joule
!calorie
!Btu
!watt-hour
|----
! 1 joule
| 1
| ~0.239 
| ~9.478 x 10^-4
| ~2.778 x 10^-4
|- 
! 1 calorie
| ~4.184
| 1
| ~3.966 x 10^-3 
| ~1.163 x 10^-3
|- 
! 1 Btu
| ~1,055.056
| ~252.164
| 1
| ~0.293
|- 
! 1 watt-hour
| 3,600
| ~860.42
| ~3.412
| 1
|}
</center>

==There is no such thing as kilowatts per hour==
==Hall of Shame==
Please see the [[Power and energy hall of shame|Hall of Shame]] for a short list of violators.
 

== See also==
*[[Low voltage connection basics]]
*[[Electrical wiring and switching]]


[[Category:Electricity]] 
[[Category:Energy]]