{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Physical disabilities
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Asia
|Image=Prabha Foot.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
In India, individuals who lack use of their legs, whether through injury or congenital disability, often cannot afford prostheses. This lack of access negatively affects an individual's quality of life and ability to earn income. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Prabha foot is a lightweight (2 kg), above-the-knee prosthetic limb. It is easily repairable with local parts, and costs approximately $50 USD. With government subsidy, Indian patients pay as little as 38 rupees (<$1 USD).

==Relevance to developing country settings==
The Prabha foot was designed in India for use by Indians. It is manufactured and distributed in India. Dr. Naik (Inventor/Designer) has also treated land mine victims from conflict areas, such as Sudan and Afghanistan. He has also set up prosthetic workshops in Bangladesh, Nepal and Pakistan.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Dr. Vijay Kumar Naik in 1999 at the Artificial Limb Centre in Bhavnagar, India
*Manufacturer: Parsanben Narandas Ramji Shah (Talajawala) Society For Relief and Rehabilitation of the Disabled
*Manufacturer location: Bhavnagar, Gujarat, India
 
==Funding Source==
This device receives philanthropic funding from the Artificial Limb Centre and the International Red Cross. It is also subsidized by the Indian government.

==References==
===Internally generated reports===
Jaipurfoot. (2007). Technology: What is our special technology. Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti, Jaipur.  Link available [http://www.jaipurfoot.org/03_Technology_ourspecialtech.asp here].

===Externally generated reports===
Baruah T. (2006.) Walking tall. HarmonyIndia.org Link available [http://www.harmonyindia.org/hportal/VirtualPageView.jsp?page_id=7158 here].

Chatterjee T. (1999.) Engineer develops low-cost artificial limb. India Express. Link available [http://www.expressindia.com/news/ie/daily/19991224/ina24003.html here].