{{Template:Are You Ready? An In-depth Guide to Citizen Preparedness}}
Once you have developed your plan, you need to practice and maintain it. For example, ask questions to make sure your family remembers meeting places, phone numbers, and safety rules. Conduct drills such as drop, cover, and hold on for earthquakes. Test fire alarms. Replace and update disaster supplies.
== For More Information ==
If you require more information about any of these topics, the following are resources that may be helpful.

'''FEMA Publications'''
*Disaster Preparedness Coloring Book. FEMA-243. Coloring book for ages 3-10. Also available in Spanish.
*Before Disaster Strikes. FEMA A-291. Contains information about how to make sure you are financially prepared to deal with a natural disaster. Also available in Spanish.
*The Adventures of Julia and Robbie: Disaster Twins. FEMA-344. A collection of disaster related stories. Includes information on preparedness and how to mitigate against disasters.
*FEMA for Kids. L-229. Provides information about what FEMA (specifically fema.gov) has to offer children.
*Community Shelter. FEMA 361. Contains guidelines for constructing mass shelters for public refuge in schools, hospitals, and other places.
*[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/library/f&web.pdf Food and Water in an Emergency.] L-210 If an earthquake, hurricane, winter storm, or other disaster strikes your community, you might not have access to food, water, and electricity for days, or even weeks. By taking some time now to store emergency food and water supplies, you can provide for your entire family.
*Helping Children Cope with Disaster. FEMA L-196. Helps families understand how to help children cope with disaster and its aftermath.
[http://www.fema.gov/plan/prepare/specialplans.shtm Individuals with Special Needs.] Information about helping people with disabilities in a disaster and resources for individuals with disabilities.

'''American Red Cross Publications'''
[http://www.redcross.org/disaster/masters/facingfear Facing Fear: Helping Young People Deal with Terrorism and Tragic Events.] A school curriculum designed to help alleviate worries and clear up confusion about perceived and actual threats to safety.

Some of the links on this page require a plug-in to view them. Links to the plug-ins are available below.
[http://www.fema.gov/goodbye/goodbye.jsp?url=http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/alternate.html 
Last Modified: Wednesday, 11-Aug-2010 12:25:33 EDT
* [http://www.fema.gov/index.shtm Home]
* [http://www.fema.gov/about/contact/index.shtm Contact Us]
* [http://www.fema.gov/esp/index.shtm Español]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/privacy.shtm Privacy Policy]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/index.shtm Important Notices]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/accessibility.shtm Accessibility]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/plugins.shtm Download Plug-ins]
* [http://www.fema.gov/help/foia.shtm FOIA]
* [http://www.fema.gov/oer/eeo_data_excel.shtm No FEAR Act Data]
* [http://www.usa.gov/ USA.gov]
* [http://www.dhs.gov/ DHS]
* The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government Web sites, companies or applications.
[http://www.fema.gov/ 
Federal Emergency Management Agency
U.S. Department of Homeland Security
500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472
External Affairs: (202) 646-4600
[http://www.disasterassistance.gov/ 
(800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-7585
[http://www.fema.gov/assistance/index.shtm 3 Step Guide for Assistance]
[http://www.ready.gov/ 
[[Category:Are You Ready? An In-depth Guide to Citizen Preparedness]]