== Daily living ==

=== Taking public transport ===

Being early can make it easier to use - and enjoy - [[public transport]] or [[cycling]]. This helps to avoid having to catch [[taxis]], driving your [[car]], or wishing you still had a car. (As a side-benefit, you' might also be a lot more relaxed.) Taking a good book or an e-book might give you more motive to leave early, and have time to read on the [[train]] and when you arrive early.

The specific choice depend on where you live, of course. If there are no practical public transport options, and no safe cycling options, write a letter to your [[local government]].

=== Sustainable food ===

Planning meals ahead of time can help avoid the temptation to purchase prepared foods and take advantage of fresh, local food that is in season. Eat more plants and less or no animal products, plants produce more calories on the same amount of land and emit less carbon dioxide and methane than animals.

=== Look for green financial benefits ===

It can be very economical and also time-saving to live more [[green]]. For example most people will hesitate to purchase expensive low-energy-light-bulbs, because they are more expensive to buy. But prove to them that it is much longer lifetime of the bulb and results in lower electric bill and makes a small profit over a long time. Larger investments like insulating the walls or putting in 3-glaze-windows of your house is also very expensive but can pay off. Doing the financial calculations on the different options can help you find the most economical and effective choices <ref>[[Technology jumps]]</ref>.

== Influencing others ==

You should be a good role model to your relatives, friends, coworkers by showing good examples on how they easily can change. But do not try to persuade or force anyone to change, it will sometimes cause a backlash, and they will not respect you and your ideas. Being hardcore and extreme about living green will sometimes make them into sceptic opponents and it will be impossible to discuss about the core principles. Also debates like this takes the focus from the important tasks to talk about.

If your way of living shows how little effort it is to change methods and ways of life, that it is not necessary to "go back and live in a cave without any amenities," this can lower resistance. Inspire others with your examples. If you share ideas, try to talk about one new small thing that is easy for anyone to change per week (or per month), and one major thing to change per month (or per 6 months) - slow change is usually longer-lasting.

== Medium term decisions ==

* Support a local car-share program that uses highly fuel efficient vehicles.
* Use your car less, and consider selling it
* Work with your community officials, attend city council meetings and become involved in your local government in order to influence     decision making
* Help to educate community leaders about the benefits of creating "walkable" and "bicycle-friendly" cities and towns

== Major decisions ==

* Live close to public transport and good bike routes so you get plenty options on commuting and shopping.
* Consumers have a lot of power if they go together and make mass campaigning:
:*Contact your energy company and tell them you would like to get only electricity from renewable wind-, solar-, hydro-, wave- power, and that they should stop using coal-power-plants.
:*Contact your local garbage collecting company and the local council and tell them about centralized composting projects (like the one in Gävle, Sweden <ref>[http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=sv&ie=UTF-8&sl=sv&tl=en&u=http://gastrikeatervinnare.se/ga/ga_sida.aspx%3Fid%3D610&prev=_t&twu=1 Info about centralized composting in the city of Gävle, Sweden www.gastrikeatervinnare.se]</ref>), they can collect food waste in separate bins and out of that create soil, and sell it back to consumers. The more we can sort out and put in different recycling schemes the less amount of trash is ending up in landfills.
:*And try to influence other people in your city/country to do the same.

== Notes ==
<references/>

== See also ==
*[[Freedom]]
*[[Sustainable city living]]
*[[Environmental psychology]]

[[Category:Green living]]
[[Category:Principles]]
[[Category:Electric appliances]]
[[Category:Sustainability]]
[[Category:Environmental philosophy]]