'''Producing Stone Dust'''

This idea of producing stone dust may seem strange but remineralization of soils is becoming much more popular and stone dust is what is normally used. Ground up stone is an excellent source of minor minerals in soils, especially from volcanic rock, granite, basalt and similar rocks. This material is especially useful in rebuilding worn out soils but can be beneficial on most any soil. 

First one must have the proper stone available. Glacial till is a good source, also volcanic andosites, lavas or volcanic ash, new or old. However the stones used must have a wide range of minerals available. 

The problem of producing rock dust is also the energy involved in the grinding and the cost of the equipment. One possible solution would be the water powered tumblers used to polish certain stones for jewelry work. Large, heavy plastic drums are equipped with an axil and attached to small water wheels on a stream with a good fall. They are loaded with a number of different rocks with good mineral content. As they turn, tumbling the contained rocks, rock dust is formed as the rocks are ground up. This is very beneficial to the soil on which it is applied. The dust can be used by the person or community producing it or can be sold to others. The addition of some pieces of charcoal to the drum will increase the benefits to the treated soil because charcoal is good for the growth of soil microorganisms.

'''Uses for Stone Dust'''

*[[Soils|Soil]] additive
*[[Mastic]]
*Foundation of [[Brick]] Walk
*Soapstone Polish


[[Category: Agriculture]]
[[Category: Technology]]