{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Proteinuriatesting.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Eclampsia is a serious high blood pressure disorder that is the second-leading cause of maternal mortality in resource-constrained settings. Early detection and treatment of pre-eclampsia, a precursor condition, can dramatically decrease this cause of maternal death. However, most existing tests for proteinuria, a marker of pre-eclampsia, are unaffordable for regular use in developing countries.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Proteinuria Self-Test for Early Detection of Pre-Eclampsia, or “proteinuria pen,” provides an easy-to-use and easy-to-read diagnostic test for pre-eclampsia that is expected to cost less than $0.01 per use. It uses felt-tip or ballpoint pens that are filled with reagents, which are used to mark a strip of paper. The reagents change color when exposed to high levels of urinary protein.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: This device was designed by Johns Hopkins University graduate students. The project is currently under the management of Jhpiego, an international non-profit affiliated with Johns Hopkins.
*Manufacturer location: Johns Hopkins University, Maryland, USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Field testing in Nepal was planned as of 2011 and began as of September 2012.

==Funding Source==
This device received funding from the following sources:
*USAID Development Innovation Ventures Grant 2011 ($100,000)
*Lemelson Foundation ($10,000)
*Johns Hopkins University

==References==
===Other internally generated reports===
Center for Bioengineering Innovation & Design. (2011). Jhpiego receives $100,000 grant to pilot pre-eclampsia screening device. Retrieved January 1, 2013. Link available [http://cbid.bme.jhu.edu/news-and-events/index.php?id=158 here].

Jhpiego. (n.d.) Jhpiego among first recipients of innovation award from USAID. Retrieved January 1, 2013. Link available [http://www.jhpiego.org/en/content/jhpiego-among-first-recipients-innovation-award-usaid here].

Jhpiego. (2012). Nepal. Retrieved January 1, 2012. Link available [http://www.jhpiego.org/en/content/nepal here].

Johns Hopkins University. (2011, May 12). Screening tests for pregnant women win global health prize for Johns Hopkins students. Retrieved January 1, 2013. Link available [http://releases.jhu.edu/2011/05/12/health-screening-tests-for-pregnant-women/ here].

Save One. (2011.) Antenatal screening kit. Retrieved January 1, 2012. Youtube video available [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fP7PUlv5kmQ here].

===Externally generated reports===
WHCC Health Innovations. (2011, May 13). The pen is mightier than the dipstick. Retrieved January 1, 2013. Link available [http://blog.whcchealthinnovations.org/?p=270&preview=true/ here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->