{{QASpage}}

=Introduction=

The metals content in a sample of water (for instance, Mg, Na, Pb, Fe, Zn, etc.) is a significant determinant of the quality of the water and its suitability for drinking purposes.  This page outlines the protocol that can be followed to determine metals content, with a focus on the preparation required in order to run the test and how it is done at Analytical Services Unit (ASU) at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario.

=Analyses performed=
* [http://www.epa.gov/osw/hazard/testmethods/sw846/pdfs/3052.pdf| Total metals digest] - at the ASU, this will analyse the "30 Element Suite" of the following metals: 
Ag, Al, As, B, Ba, Be, Ca, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, K, Mg, Mn, Mo, Na, Ni, P, Pb, S, Sb, Se, Sn, Sr, Ti, Tl, U, V, Zn
* [http://www.ungiwg.org/openwater/?q=book/export/html/140| Inductively Coupled Plasma by Optical Emission Spectrometry (ICP-OES)]

=Instruments and materials=

* Total digest performed at the ASU with a DigiPrep digestion block with a digital controller
* Samples are then analyzed at the ASU with a Varian Vista AX CCD Simultaneous ICP-AES
* 50 mL inert polymeric containers - one per sample
* 1.0M nitric acid

Note: The above materials are those that a student might have to work with at the ASU.  For a complete list of materials used in the method suggested by the Environmental Protection Agency, see  [http://www.epa.gov/osw/hazard/testmethods/sw846/pdfs/3052.pdf| EPA Method 3052].

=Procedure=

==Calibrating pipettes==

1. Set the pipette volume to 1500<br>
2. Place a small container at the center of the analytical balance and press "TARE"<br>
3. Withdraw a sample of deionized water with the pipette<br>
4. Add the water to the small container on the analytical balance<br>
5. If the mass displayed is within the defined boundaries of 0.1489g and 0.1510g, the pipette is sufficiently calibrated<br>

==Preparing samples for digest==

1. In case the metal has not completely dissolved in the solution, the sample must first be mixed with concentrated nitric acid (1.0M):
<ul>
<li> Add 25 mL of completely mixed sample to an inert container
<li> Add 2 mL of acid to the sample
<li> Repeat for all samples
</ul>
2. Place all the samples, without a cap, inside an incubator set at 90 degrees Centigrade and heat for 300 minutes.<br>
3. After the samples have been heated, they will need to be diluted again.  Add enough deionized water to each sample to bring the volume to 25 mL.<br>
4. Place a cap on each sample and submit the set to the lab technician at the ASU.

==Digesting the metals==
The EPA method for digesting a sample and analysing the test can be found [http://www.epa.gov/osw/hazard/testmethods/sw846/pdfs/3052.pdf| here], as provided in the link above.<br>
An outline of the ICP/OES analysis is provided [http://www.ungiwg.org/openwater/?q=book/export/html/140| here].

=Results=
At Queen's, the results will be provided in table form with control values provided.  Concentrations will be provided in parts per million (ppm). 


[[Category:Queens_Applied_Sustainability_Group_Lab_Protocols]]