
== About the Organisation, and activities ==

(N.B.:- this is an edited version of information from the PTUA website's [http://www.ptua.org.au/about/ About page]).

Founded in 1976 as the Train Travellers Association, the Public Transport Users Association is the recognised consumer organisation representing passengers of all forms of public transport in Victoria, Australia. The PTUA are a non-profit, voluntary organisation, with no political affiliations.

The organisation's key activities are:
* Lobbying governments and public transport authorities in the interest of all users of public transport.
* Working with other bodies and through the media to promote public transport and educate the community about the benefits of sustainable transport policies.
* Undertaking research into transport policies which will improve services and make Melbourne and regional Victoria a better place in which to live.

The PTUA is committed to:

* A sustainable economy
* A healthy ecology
* An equitable society

… where Victorians can go anywhere, anytime, using a community controlled public transport system that is convenient, efficient and safe.

== "Every ten minutes to everywhere" ==

A key campaign plank for better public transport is the PTUA's "Every ten minutes to everywhere" campaign. This is based on a policy of selected route extensions to suburban areas, and frequency improvements based on network upgrades. See the [http://www.ptua.org.au/campaigns/every10minutes/plan/ Every 10 minutes plan summary] on the PTUA's website.

== See Also ==

* [[OSSTIP]]: The PTUA is participating in an Action-Research project with [[User:PatSunter|PatSunter]] to investigate the potential of [[Open source software]] and [[Open data]] resources and approaches in designing and communicating the benefits of a multimodal public transport network.
* [[Melbourne sustainable transport reform]]

== External Links ==

* [http://www.ptua.org.au PTUA official website] 

[[Category:Australia]]
[[Category:Melbourne]]
[[Category:Sustainable cities]]
[[Category:Transport]][[Category:Public transport]]