{{shortcut|PDIS}}
<center>
{{#widget:Google Gadget
|url=http://www.google.com/cse/api/010475139252798918668/cse/ugbbv3dp5lu/gadget
|title=Public Domain Image Search
|width=320
|height=76
}}
</center>
<center><small>If the search box isn't displaying correctly here, it's a temporary problem. See [http://www.google.com/cse/home?cx=010475139252798918668:ugbbv3dp5lu Public Domain Image Search] in the meantime.</small></center>


This search is intended to find high quality images which (as far as possible) are [[public domain]], i.e. without copyright restrictions. A number of galleries are indexed. 

'''INSTRUCTIONS''': Search, then click the Image tab on the results page. Then click a filter to narrow down your search (Smithsonian, Technology, Health, Nature or Agriculture).

'''WARNING''': Please check for copyright notices before using as public domain. The default view contains non-PD images, especially from the Smithsonian. The "Smithsonian" tab shows just images from that site which are tagged as public domain (but we haven't managed to do that for the main view).

== Other options ==

You can also search images on the [[Public Domain Search]] (via the Image tab). Both are useful, but give different results. 

== How the search is built ==

{{under construction|December 2012|More galleries should be added. Please add suggestions on the {{talk page}}.}}

Suitable image have been added manually - a very different approach to the [[Public Domain Search]] which searches all of .gov (and some other sites) but excludes unsuitable subdomains of .gov.

The site is managed by [[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] - help is welcome.

== Image sources ==

Most public domain images are likely to be from US Federal Government sources - especially for modern images.

Resources to be checked and added:
* http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/6-free-websites-public-domain-images-free-stock-photos/

Challenges - problematic galleries that have been added:
* [http://www.burningwell.org/ BurningWell.org] - not well indexed by Google (e.g. search for ''solar'' - many more turn up by using ), and it's almost a certainty that some users will have uploaded copyright images, in spite of the intention of the site.

Challenges - galleries which have not been added:
* http://www.doedigitalarchive.doe.gov/ very restrictive (have to "order" high res images; not indexed by search engines). [https://twitter.com/appropedia/status/276292536077807617 Asked via @appropedia]: 
"@ENERGY Hi - the images at www.doedigitalarchive.doe.gov are the work of US Federal employees, I presume? I.e. #PublicDomain under US law?"
* https://public.ornl.gov/site/gallery/default.cfm - public domain is implicitly acknowledged in footer, but site appears not to be indexed by Google. (Mostly science research images - some relevant to Appropedia.)
* [https://www.nsf.gov/news/mmg/ US National Science Foundation - Multimedia Gallery] - not indexed by Google, and its own https://www.nsf.gov/news/mmg/mmg_search.cfm seems to be broken, so the nearly 3000 images can only be viewed by [https://www.nsf.gov/news/mmg/index.cfm?s=0 paging through 30 at a time]. Limited range of themes - science more than technology

Note the explanations of public domain on the [[Public Domain Search]]. Not all images on .gov sites are public domain, for example:
* Anything on state, territory or local government sites.
* Any work done under contract ''may'' be under copyright. For example, Los Alamos National Lab's [Photo Galleries] - note that the [http://www.lanl.gov/resources/web-policies/copyright-legal.php Copyright, Legal] notice claims copyright, which may be justified as the Lab's work is performed under contract rather than as direct employment by the federal government.)

Indexes of US Federal Government galleries. Some will be suitable:
* http://www.usa.gov/Topics/Graphics.shtml

== Included sites ==

Current sites searched by the PDIS are:
* *.burningwell.org/*
* apps1.eere.energy.gov/news/photographs.cfm*    Technology 
* www.nrel.gov/data/pix/*
* patapsco.nist.gov/imagegallery/*
* gallery.usgs.gov/*
* digitalmedia.fws.gov/cdm/landingpage/collection/natdiglib/*
* photogallery.nrcs.usda.gov/res/sites/photogallery/*
* www.ars.usda.gov/is/graphics/photos/*
* *.si.edu/imageDetail.cfm*
* marinelife.noaa.gov/media_lib/*
* www.ars.usda.gov/is/graphics/photos/*
* images.fws.gov/*
* www.nih.gov/about/nihphotos.htm/*
* www.nibib.nih.gov/publicPage.cfm?pageID=2814/*
* phil.cdc.gov/*

== Notes and references ==
{{reflist}}


{{stub}}

[[Category:Appropedia's Public Domain Search]]
[[Category:Custom searches]]
[[Category:Images]]
[[Category:Public domain]]