{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality, Child mortality, 
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Deficiency of iron can restrict the transport of oxygen in the blood. This can cause birth asphyxia, affecting 40-60% of children ages 6-24 months in low-resource settings. Detecting low oxygen levels in patients when it is too late can permanently impede cognitive development, cause organ failure, or even death.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This durable, low-cost pulse oximetry probe is placed on a thin part of the patient’s body (fingertip, earlobe) or on the foot of an infant. It’s oximeter measures the saturation of oxygen in the blood of newborns, sick children, and mothers undergoing cesarean sections. The device’s power is derived via a “wind-up” mechanism, so it can be used anywhere away from electrical power sources.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Power-Free Education and Technology, lead by John Wyatt
*Manufacturer (if different):
*Manufacturer location: South Africa

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
South Africa, United Kingdom, 2011

==Funding Source==
Recipient of Grand Challenges Exploration Grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.
==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===

===Other internally generated reports===

===Externally generated reports===
Grand Challenges in Global Health. (2013). Low-cost pulse oximetry probes for low resource settings. Retrieved December 1, 2013 from [http://www.grandchallenges.org/Explorations/Pages/GrantsAwarded.aspx?Topic=Mothers%20and%20newborns&Round=all&Phase=1 here.]

Maternal and Neonatal Directed Assessment of Technology (2011). Description of oximetry probe. Retrieved December 1, 2013 from [http://mnhtech.org/technology/technologies-in-development/powerfree-oximetry-probe/ here.]

===IP and copyright===
===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->