{{explain redlinks}}

'''Raising seedlings''' can be done directly in the garden, or in pots or seedling trays, depending on the local climate, available options and intended use of the seedlings. 

For a quick, practical guide, see [[How to raise seedlings]]. To understand some of the issues in raising seedlings, see below. 

== Needs ==

The key factors that affect seed [[germination]] are:

* [[Water]]
* [[Oxygen]] - there is no root or leaf system to breathe, so oxygen must be able to reach the seed. A light porous soil helps. The main thing is not to bury them in a hard [[clay]] soil, or bury them too deeply within the soil, or have a soil which is waterlogged, or the seed may die. 
* [[Temperature]] - many seeds prefer a temperatures around or slightly above room-temperature, 16-24 deg C (60-75 F) - this applies to most food plants which are commonly grown. (Other plants have more unusual requirements, but you generally won't encounter these when growing [[vegetables]] or [[herbs]]. Some cold-weather plants can germinate just above freezing. Others response to changes in temperature between warm and cool. Some seeds need to be exposed to cold temperatures (vernalization{{w|Vernalization}}) and then be allowed to warm up, to break dormancy. Some seeds only germinate after hot temperatures during a forest fire which cracks their seed coats.)

== Threats ==

Hot, cold, wind, pests excess sun can threaten seedlings.

== Create the environment ==

Check your setting for the threats above, and look for ways to minimize them. 

E.g. A drying wind may be avoided by moving next to an existing [[windbreak]] (wall or [[tree]]) or by placing a [[plant igloo]] over them. 

== Planting directly or transplanting ==

:''See also [[How to raise seedlings #Sowing directly vs sowing in containers]].''

If you have a mild climate, and especially if you like [[lazy gardening]] (which is really efficient and resilient gardening), then planting directly where the plants are to grow is preferable. The seeds can be planted directly in a small amount of compost or potting mix, unless the soil is both good quality and light.

== Notes and references ==
{{reflist}}

== See also ==

* [[Transplanting seedlings]]
* [[Disease in seedlings]]
* {{cl|Food crops}}

== Interwiki links ==

* [[Wikipedia:Germination]]
* [[Wikipedia:Seedlings]]

== External links ==
{{add links}}

* [http://www.cdc.gov/Features/GrowingVegetables/ Spring Seedlings: Tips for Growing Your Own Vegetables] - CDC.gov
* [http://www.plantdex.com Gardening Resource] Plantdex

{{stub}}

[[Category:Gardening]]
[[Category:Seedlings]]