The [[jungle]] comes complete with [[polyculture]] [[foods]] all year long. Greens, bugs, [[fruits]], [[seeds]] and more, mostly fresh. Most [[chicken feeds]] eliminate three out of four of these - leaving only [[grain]]. And dried grain at that. Grain alone makes for a sickly chicken, so "chicken feed" also contains dried legumes and a vitamin/mineral mix that contains the [[nutrients]] that we are aware are missing (though there may be others we're not aware of).

People build elaborate [[chicken shelters]] for that deprive them of fresh foods or bugs even in the summer. Or natural sunlight. Or have them standing in their own poop all day. Or, worse, the chickens are killed by predators.

[[Pastured poultry pens]] and [[chicken tractors]] are alternative ways of working with chickens.

== See also == 

* [[Chicken basics]] 
* [[Wild Chick Farm]] 

== External links ==

* [http://www.richsoil.com/raising-chickens.jsp raising chickens 2.0: no more coop and run!] - article with explanation, comparison and instructions.
* [http://www.permies.com/permaculture-forums/1958_0/critter-care/chicken-coopsrunstractorspaddockspensetc thread on chicken coops, runs, tractors, paddocks, and pens at permies.com]
* [http://www.richsoil.com/permaculture/156-podcast-014-chicken-presentation/ raising chickens] - podcast by Paul Wheaton
* [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_DRgGlGIwMk&feature=feedf a hen and her mouse--chickens are not vegetarians] - youtube by Paul Wheaton
* [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=48HNY4f88Co chicken paddock shift - chickens like greens] youtube by Paul Wheaton

{{stub}}

[[Category:Chickens]]
[[Category:Livestock]]