Rapeseed is useful for extracting vegetable oil and [[filter cake]]. 
The vegetable oil can be used for baking, cooking and as a [[Vegetable oil as fuel|fuel]] for powering vehicles and agricultural equipment. The filter cake is often used as [[cattle feed]] (as an alternative to soy).

We estimate that at 1 ha land, 4,5 ton of rapeseed can be grown in winter. That yields about 1485 liter of rapeseed oil (33% of 42% oil in the seed can be extracted) and 3015 kg of filter cake. 

We estimate that a new press costs about 2800 €, an oil filter costs about 4700 €, and a storage tank of 1000 liter costs about 500 €. That's a total of 8000 €

1 l of rapeseed oil for use as a fuel has a value of 0,95 €/l, and the same liter of oil used as an edible oil has a value of 0,65 €/l Pressing costs are about 0,10€/l Prices of engine conversion are the prices per year.

==Some scenarios and financial profits thereof==
Scenario 1: own use of the rapeseed oil in personal vehicle + use of filter cake
This yields 1475 € per ha (1410 € from oil, 435 € from filter cake, minus 150 € costs for pressing, 220 € for conversion engine). 

Scenario 2: selling of oil to private company + use of filter cake
This yields 1250 € per ha (965 € from oil, 435 € from filter cake, minus 150 € costs for pressing, 

Scenario 3: own use as fuel for tractor + use of filter cake
This yields 925 € per ha (740 € from oil, 435 € from filter cake, minus 150 € costs for pressing, 100 € for conversion engine). 

Scenario 4: commercial selling of edible oil + use of filter cake
This yields 880 € per ha (595 € from oil, 435 € from filter cake, minus 150 € costs for pressing).

==References==
* Kosten versus baten, Vakwerk Koolzaad; source: Ministerie van de Vlaamse Gemeenschap, Administratie en Kwaliteit Landbouwproductie 

[[Category:Transport]]
[[Category:Agriculture]]
[[Category:Vegetable oils]]