{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Sexually transmitted infections in pregnant mothers can lead to adverse health consequences for both the mother and child. Although early detection and treatment of STIs can reduce the likelihood of these adverse effects, diagnostic tests are normally unavailable in low-resource settings. 

==Detailed description of the solution==
This diagnostics device is a low-cost, front-line testing device that enables simultaneous detection of HIV and syphilis. The device uses the blood obtained from a single finger prick to determine whether HIV or syphilis is present in the blood. This testing system yields results that are just as accurate as laboratory testing. Integrated into this diagnostic instrument is a GPRS mobile health capability, a feature that automatically synchronizes the obtained data to a central health records database.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: The Trustees of Columbia University
*Manufacturer location: New York, NY

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Rwanda
 
==Funding Source==
Finalist in Saving Lives at Birth competition

==References==

===Externally generated reports===
Novel frontline mobile diagnostics device for antenatal care. (2011). Retrieved from [http://savinglivesatbirth.net/summaries/102 here]

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->