<!-- Not too sure whether status is applicable, since percolation pits are
probably deployed in many places worldwide since millennia but rarely 
described a technology. -->
<!-- {{status-verified}} -->
{{toc right}}

A percolation pit, in its most low-tech form, is a simple hole dug into 
the ground. It facilitates [[groundwater recharge]] through infiltration of 
[[reducing runoff|surface runoff]] into the soil or rock. 

Differences to [[CCAT trench swales|contour trenches]]:
* Better water storage capability due to greater depth.
* Better stability due to the circular walls, allows for application on steeper slopes than are recommended for contour trenches.<ref name=create_river />

For achieving a significant effect, several pits are placed across an area 
and are planted with appropriate plant species. Applied on a sufficient 
scale, this method can trigger reforestation – reviving perennial streams 
and creating springs along the way. In contrast to conventional reforestation, 
this does not involve planting a forest tree by tree; it merely helps nature 
across a threshold it can not (quickly enough) pass on its own. 

The method was developed by Sachidanand Bhart. He adapted the old habit in 
his native region  in the Himalayas of building a chal/khal – a 6-8m wide hole to 
conserve rain water for use in summers for fodder and animals – to the 
demands of reforestation around his home village.<ref name=amazing />

== Field of application ==

Reforestation with percolation pits lends itself particularly well to steep terrain
above human dwellings in a climate with irregular patterns of precipitation, 
where it increases water retention and reduces [[erosion]]. At the level
of the dwellings, the gained groundwater can be utilised by complementing 
the system with larger [[retention basin|retention basins]] and [[irrigation]] 
canals.<ref name=profile />

Although the only publicised deployment appears to be in the Himalayas, the 
method should be adaptable to other areas – provided that the thickness of 
the soil and sediment layer is sufficient to dig holes.

Worldwide, there really is no shortage of hills and mountains suffering from 
runoff and erosion. Reestablishing forests as far upstream as possible is a 
smart thing to do; they will more easily spread downward than vice versa. All
ecosystems located downstream will benefit from improved water supply and 
reduced peak water-levels during floods.
 
== Implementation ==

=== Dimensions and layout ===

Pits are placed on the slopes, not along the drain 
lines that are moist anyway.<ref name=create_river /> Starting with small 30 cm deep ones dug 
two meters apart just below the ridge,<ref name=profile /> sizes increase 
up to about 1.25 m in depth and diameter further 
downward<ref name=create_river /> – with distances increasing as well.

Pictures and videos linked below in the 
[[#References|References]] and 
[[#External links|External links]] 
sections give a good impression of the layout.

=== Plants ===

Planting grass immediately downhill of the pits secures their edges and 
prevents soil from being washed away.<ref name=create_river /> 
That grass can be harvested as fodder,<ref name=own_words /> regularly
cutting it will also keep the sod dense and less prone to erosion.

[[:Category:Trees|Trees]] planted around the edges will benefit from 
water retained by the pit and in turn provide shade, stabilise the soil 
and increase its capacity to absorb water. Thereby, trees and the pit develop 
a mutually beneficial relationship.<ref name=create_river /> 
Tree species selected should be adapted to the climate, i.e. usually 
local ones. Broad leaved trees are great for providing 
shade,<ref name=own_words /> fruit and nut trees can be chosen to grow
a [[Food_forests|food forest]].

These at first distinct islands of vegetation will form the initial
nuclei, more and more plants will "crystallize" around them until
they merge and form a continuous ground cover.

=== Community support ===

To highlight the importance of community support and of keeping 
external stakeholders out of the game, a few quotes from
Sachidanand Bhart:

{{quote|Implementation isn’t that difficult but getting the support of the 
villagers to sustain this effort, is hard.<ref name=create_river />}}

{{quote|The reason it has succeeded is simple. Education. No, not schools and 
related education but education of the people. Creating awareness among 
them and making them understand the benefits.<ref name=create_river />}}

{{quote|Also, they knew I had nothing to gain. I was not getting paid for this. 
This made it easier for them to trust me and to believe that I only had 
their interests at heart.<ref name=create_river />}}

{{quote|[...] I refused as I thought that if a flood of money comes in, then 
our work will be washed away. The World Bank official sent a reply saying that 
after meeting you, I realised the India is the land of Gautam Buddha and of 
Gandhi.<ref name=own_words />}}

{{quote|Our work was based on people's hard work and a responsibility towards their forest. If money comes in, the feeling of responsibility would be lost.<ref name=hindu />}}

Local autonomy with regard to land use and water management is 
crucial. Once these rights are in dispute, people will not engage in such 
a long-term project.<ref name=sisyphus />

== Case study ==

The method was developed and deployed in the Himalayas in and around 
the village Ufrenkhal (also 
Ufrain Khal,<ref name=dead_rock /> 
Ufreikhal,<ref name=profile /> 
Uffrain Khal<ref name=hindu /> or
Ufrainkhal [[http://www.openstreetmap.org/node/342111581 OpenStreetMaps]])
in the Pauri Garhwal district of the Indian state Uttarakhand.

=== Conditions ===

The village lies at an altitude of around 1900 m and receives a generous
1300 mm of rain annually,<ref name=own_words /> although not regularly
distributed over time.<ref name=harvest /> 

Once an abundant source of timber, the region's
riches were exported on a large scale since the 1960s,<ref name=dead_rock /> 
leaving a harsh terrain with scarce natural resources.<ref name=celebrating />
If any, government-planted pine forests are prevalent. Their roots, however, do 
not excel in preventing erosion and the pines easily catch 
fire.<ref name=own_words /><ref name=hindu />

=== Scale and time frame ===

As of 2013, digging and planting started 35 years ago,<ref name=create_river />
How many pits were dug is not all too clear, numbers given vary between 
5,000<ref name=own_words /> and 20,000.<ref name=hindu />

=== Results ===

The villagers have created "the best and thickest forests in the 
state",<ref name=dead_rock /> thereby revived a perennial stream 
discharging 3 litres per minute near its source, along with countless 
springs. The water is used for irrigation and for 
drinking.<ref name=create_river />

Over 40 villages adopted the method.<ref name=create_river />
Especially women are benefiting since it is mostly them managing home 
and fields while men are absent working in the plains.<ref name=dead_rock />
Thanks to their lush forests, there is no need for them to collect firewood in other villages' 
forests any more.<ref name=hindu />

== See also ==

* [[Groundwater recharge]]
* [[Reducing runoff]]
* [[Swales]]

== References ==

{{Reflist|
refs=
<ref name=create_river>{{cite web
    | last1 = Chicu
    | first1 = Lokgariwar
    | last2 = Bharti
    | first2 = Sacchidanand
    | title = A village creates magic…and a river!
    | url = http://www.indiawaterportal.org/articles/village-creates-magicand-river
    | date = April 30, 2013
    | accessdate = January 20, 2014
    | archiveurl = http://web.archive.org/web/20140120115327/http://www.indiawaterportal.org/articles/village-creates-magicand-river
    | archivedate = January 20, 2014
    | deadurl = no
    }}</ref>
<ref name=celebrating>{{cite web
    | last1 = Pahari
    | first1 = Ramesh
    | last2 = Bharti
    | first2 = Sacchidanand
    | last3 = Upreti
    | first3 = Prabhat 
    | last4 = Bhist,
    | first4 =Puran
    | last5 = Pathak
    | first5 = Shekhar
    | title = Celebrating Uttarakhand 
    | url = http://www.indiawaterportal.org/articles/celebrating-uttarakhand
    | date = June 17, 2013
    | accessdate = January 20, 2014
    | archiveurl = http://web.archive.org/web/20140120142832/http://www.indiawaterportal.org/articles/celebrating-uttarakhand 
    | archivedate = January 20, 2014
    | deadurl = no
    }}</ref>
<ref name=own_words>{{cite web
    | last1 = Chicu
    | first1 = Lokgariwar
    | last2 = Bharti
    | first2 = Sacchidanand
    | title = Sacchidanand Bharti - in his own words
    | url = http://www.indiawaterportal.org/articles/sacchidanand-bharti-his-own-words
    | date = July 15, 2013
    | accessdate = January 20, 2014
    | archiveurl = http://web.archive.org/web/20140120173041/http://www.indiawaterportal.org/articles/sacchidanand-bharti-his-own-words 
    | archivedate = January 20, 2014
    | deadurl = no
    }}</ref>
<ref name=dead_rock>{{cite web
    | last1 = ashis
    | title = From dead rock, the trees return: The quiet work of one person, who has pioneered a village movement to restore and revive the forests and water bodies of the Himalayas
    | url = http://www.indiawaterportal.org/news/dead-rock-trees-return-quiet-work-one-person-who-has-pioneered-village-movement-restore-and 
    | date = February 5, 2010
    | accessdate = January 20, 2014
    | archiveurl = http://web.archive.org/web/20130516072019/http://www.indiawaterportal.org/news/dead-rock-trees-return-quiet-work-one-person-who-has-pioneered-village-movement-restore-and
    | archivedate = May 16, 2013
    | deadurl = no
    }}</ref>
<ref name=profile>{{cite web
    | last1 = Ashoka
    | title = Sachidanand Bharati 
    | url = https://www.ashoka.org/fellow/sachidanand-bharati
    | date = 1998
    | accessdate = January 20, 2014
    | archiveurl = http://web.archive.org/web/20140120222627/https://www.ashoka.org/fellow/sachidanand-bharati
    | archivedate = January 20, 2014
    | deadurl = no
    }}</ref>
<ref name=sisyphus>{{cite web
    | last1 = Peoples' Science Institute
    | title = Sisyphean Labours – Domestic Water Supply In The Central-Western Himalayas
    | url = http://www.indiawaterportal.org/sites/indiawaterportal.org/files/Sisyphean%20Labours.pdf
    | date = 2003
    | accessdate = January 21, 2014
    | archiveurl = https://web.archive.org/web/20140120235714/http://www.indiawaterportal.org/sites/indiawaterportal.org/files/Sisyphean%20Labours.pdf
    | archivedate = January 20, 2014
    | pages = 31f
    | edition = draft
    | deadurl = no
    }}</ref>
<ref name=harvest>{{cite web
    | last = Lokgariwar
    | first = Chicu 
    | title = Breaking a centuries-old curse in Uttarakhand Central-Western Himalayas
    | url = http://www.indiawaterportal.org/articles/rainwater-harvesting-uttarakhand
    | date = July 9, 2013
    | accessdate = January 21, 2014
    | archiveurl = http://web.archive.org/web/20140121042410/http://www.indiawaterportal.org/articles/rainwater-harvesting-uttarakhand
    | archivedate = January 21, 2014
    | deadurl = no
    }}</ref>
<ref name=hindu>{{cite web
    | last = Kaur
    | first = Ravleen 
    | title = A people's forest 
    | url = http://www.thehindu.com/features/magazine/article2562120.ece
    | archivedate = 21 January 2014
    | archiveurl = http://web.archive.org/web/20140121015604/http://www.thehindu.com/features/magazine/article2562120.ece
    | publisher = The Hindu
    | date = October 22, 2011
    | accessdate = January 21, 2014
    | deadurl = no
    }}</ref>
<ref name=amazing>{{cite web
    | title = Hills that catch water!
    | series = Amazing Indians Season II
    | publisher = The Times of India
    | url = http://www.timesnow.tv/Hills-that-catch-water/videoshow/4411999.cms
    | accessdate = January 22, 2014
    }}</ref>
}}

== External links ==

* [https://www.flickr.com/photos/indiawaterportal/sets/72157633198803811/ Photos] of the Project in Ufrenkhal.
* [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IHwg3Jk3HQU Preview of the TV report] for ''Amazing Indians'' by Times Now.
* [http://www.timesnow.tv/Hills-that-catch-water/videoshow/4411999.cms Full TV report] for ''Amazing Indians'' by Times Now.
* [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VE98f6brYKM&t=10m28s Video] of a project visit.
* [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AkFIPkl-6JM TV report] from 2008 by NDTV India (Hindi).


<!--Include higher-level categories? Probably not, to not glut 
the 'Pages in category'-section on the category pages.-->
<!--[[Category:Water]]-->
<!--[[Category:Groundwater]]-->

[[Category:Groundwater recharge]]
[[Category:Irrigation]]

<!-- best category until Category:Reforestation exists -->
[[Category:Forestry]]
<!-- not yet existing (or better afforestation?) -->
<!-- [[Category:Reforestation]] -->