{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Child mortality, Maternal mortality
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa, Asia
|Image=Safesnip.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Many infections result from improper umbilical cord care and wound treatment, especially in regions such as southeast Asia and Africa where home births are common.  The SafeSnip device makes umbilical cord disposal safer, easier, and more sanitary.

==Detailed description of the solution==
SafeSnip is a three-inch plastic disposable and degradable device that cuts, seals, and disinfects umbilical cords in a simple, one-step procedure. SafeSnip breaks in to two after being used to cut the cord such that one half of the device remains clamped onto the baby's umbilical cord to seal the wound while the other can be discarded.  Its symmetric design and multiple safety features minimize misuse and shorten the delivery process. It would also retail for under $1, offering an inexpensive yet effective means for safe umbilical cord severance in developing nations.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Graduate students at Tulane University (William Kethman, Bryan Molter, Stephanie Roberts and Mark Young) as well an Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, David Rice.
*Production:  It is now being manufactured by NOvate Medical Technologies, LLC.  Website available [http://novatemedical.com/ here].
*Manufacturing: New Orleans, Louisiana, USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
This device was tested in 2008.

==Funding Sources==
*National Collegiate Inventors and Innovators Alliance ($500)
*NOvate Medical Technologies
*Tulane University
*Wal-Mart Foundation ($5000)
*Bill and Melinda Gates Goundation/Saving Lives at Birth ($250,000)

==References==
===Internally generated reports===
Brannon, K. (2009). Students’ Invention Aids Safe Childbirth. Link available [http://tulane.edu/news/newwave/081809_safesnip.cfm here].

===Externally generated reports===
NOvate: Cutting the Cord. (n.d.). Wake Forest Elevator Competition. Retrieved December
26, 2012. Link available [http://2010.elevatorcompetitionlive.com/2010/03/27/novate-cutting-the-cord/ here].

SafeSnip: cuts, clamps, and shields umbilical cords from infection. (2012, May 16). Saving Lives at Birth: A Grand Challenge for Development. Retrieved December 26, 2012. Link available [http://www.savinglivesatbirth.net/summaries/84 here].

SafeSnip. (n.d.). Maternal and Neonatal Directed Assessment of Technology. Retrieved
December 26, 2012. Link available [http://mnhtech.org/technology/technologies-in-development/safesnip/ here].

SafeSnip for umbilical cord. (2011). Maternova. Link available [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/safesnip-umbilical-cord here].

===IP and copyright===
The patent belongs to William Kethman, Bryan Molter, Stephanie Roberts, Mark Young, and David Rice of Tulane University.