{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Sally3.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Anemia is a major cause of maternal mortality and it remains a prominent issue in developing countries. Methods to accurately diagnose this condition are inadequate in these regions. The Sally Centrifuge, with its mechanically-powered, cost-efficient and portable design, hopes to bring accurate diagnostic technology to low-resource areas.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Sally Centrifuge is composed of hair combs, a salad spinner and a round plastic container.  It spins small capillary tubes filled with blood for ten minutes with manual pumping. A rudimentary gauge is then used to assess hematocrit values (or the ratio of red blood cells to the total volume) to determine whether a person is anemic. The centrifuge can spin up to 30 samples in ten minutes at a rate of 950 rpm.

==Describe its relevance to resource-constrained settings==
The Sally Centrifuge is optimal for use in resource-constrained settings because it does not require electricity.  It is inexpensive, lightweight, portable, robust and fairly easy to operate. Moreover, studies have shown that it is considerably accurate and effective. 

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Lauren Theis and Lila Kerr, two undergraduate students of Rice University's 360: Institute for Global Health Technologies

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Brown, J., Theis, L., Kerr, L., Zakhidova, N., O'Connor, K., Uthman, M. Z., Oden, M., Richards-Kortum, R. (2011). A Hand-Powered, Portable, Low-Cost Centrifuge for Diagnosing Anemia in Low-Resource Settings. The American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, 85 (2) 327-332. 

===Internally generated reports===
Hand-Powered Centrifuge.  Rice 360: Institute for Global Health Technologies. Link available [http://www.rice360.rice.edu/content.aspx?id=672 here].

===Externally generated reports===
Salad Spinner centrifuge for anemia. (2011). Maternova: Tools and Ideas that Save Mothers and Infants. Link available [http://maternova.net/health-innovations/salad-spinner-centrifuge-anemia here].
<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->