== Our Mission ==
To provide communities in Nicaragua with the opportunity to improve their own healthcare systems while supporting [[sustainable development]] that creates jobs for members of these communities.

We believe at the cross section of healthcare, entrepreneurship, and [[renewable energy]] there is an opportunity.  This is our way of showing others how to take advantage of this opportunity and to harness sunshine for sustainable business and better health.

In pursuit of our mission, we have the incredible opportunity to partner with Grupo Fenix and Las Mujeres Solares in Nicaragua and the University of Dayton ETHOS program and School of Business Administration in the United States. As 2009 promises to be a great year for Salud del Sol, we are keeping ourselves focused on our mission through the following objectives:

Support the development of a solar powered production center in Sabana Grande de Totogalpa, Nicaragua for manufacturing solar autoclaves.

Develop domestic and international outreach programs for Salud del Sol to increase public awareness.

Complete the solar autoclave product design for release into [[rural communities]] in Nicaragua.

Create  a marketing strategy for the solar autoclave to be implemented in Nicaraguan clinics.

Continue to develop the organizational capacities of Salud del Sol.

== About ==
Salud del Sol was founded by four students from the University of Dayton. After researching solar autoclaves, the company was formed as a way to expand this and other similar renewable energy, health-related technologies. We have backgrounds in both business and engineering, making us able to tackle diverse problems. Our multi-discipline, flexible approach helps people meet their own needs.

As an appropriate technology company, we bring multiple skills to assist our partners with their development needs. Salud del Sol conducts research and development, acts as custodian for intellectual property, secures funding through donations and grants, does market analysis and development, and provides other advice and assistance for long-term sustainability of small businesses in [[poverty]] stricken areas.

We are in the process of applying to the IRS for non-profit status as a 501(c)(3) organization.

== External links ==
http://www.saluddelsol.org/

[[Category:Nicaragua]]
[[Category:Appropriate technology organizations]]
[[Category:Sustainability organizations]]
[[Category:Solar]]