{{Lang|[[Kuokoa simu ya mkononi iliyolowa|Kiswahili]] - [[Saving a wet mobile phone|English]]}}
You can often '''save your wet [[mobile phone]]''' (cell phone) if you act quickly. So after you salvage it from the sink, or from the table after a spilled drink, follow these steps ''immediately'':

# Quickly wipe off the surface moisture
# Remove battery. (If it's an iPhone, the battery can't be removed, but at least make sure your iPhone is off and locked).
# Remove the SIM card if it has one, dry it carefully and put it somewhere safe (and where you'll remember it). At least the data there is safe. 
# Dry any more excess moisture around the battery compartment, by blowing on it or using paper towels or lint-free cloth. One of those cans of compressed air used to clean keyboards is great if you have one.
# As soon as you can, put the phone in a bowl of uncooked rice. The rice absorbs the moisture (that's why they put rice in salt shakers in diners.) Leave it there for several hours, at least. (''Note'': white rice definitely works, if you have it - now's not the time to worry about healthier brown rice. The layer of bran may or may not make a difference - but please update this point if you have better info.)
# Remove, reinsert battery, and try turning it on.  

There's a very good chance this will save your phone. If not, be sure to [[recycle]] it... and better luck next time!

== Notes and references ==
{{reflist}}

http://www.wikihow.com/Save-a-Wet-Cell-Phone

== See also ==

* [[LCA of cell phones]]
* [[Metal reclamation and recycling of electronic waste]]
* [[Recycling mobile phones]]

== External links ==

* [http://blog.tiptheplanet.com/2011/02/how-to-save-your-wet-cell-phone/ How to Save Your Wet Cell Phone -Tiptheplanet.com] 
* [http://reviews.cnet.co.uk/mobile-phones/how-to-save-a-wet-mobile-phone-and-what-not-to-do-50008881/ How to Save Your Wet Cell Phone and What Not To Do -CNET.co.uk]
* [http://howto.wired.com/wiki/Save_a_Wet_Cell_Phone/ Save A Wet Cell Phone -Wired.com]

{{add links}}


{{stub}}

[[Category:Mobile phones]]
[[Category:How tos]]