{{MOST}}
[[category: MOST literature reviews]]

This page is a literature review of the [[funding]] of [[science]] in the U.S.

==Background==
Specific facts:

* Funding per year, over time

NSF, “NSF Funding History - Sides,” Budget Internet Information System. [Online]. Available: http://dellweb.bfa.nsf.gov/nsffundhist_files/frame.htm. [Accessed: 15-Aug-2013].

* Funding by agency & discipline & state (includes success rates as %) 

NSF, “NSF Funding Rate by State and Organization and Discipline.” [Online]. Available: http://dellweb.bfa.nsf.gov/awdfr3/default.asp. [Accessed: 15-Aug-2013].

==Hardware design funding==
* History
* Methods
** NSF funds major equipment [http://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=5260] 

R. Phelps and K. McCloud, “National Science Foundation - Major Research Instrumentation (MRI) Webcast - Program Summary and 2013 Completition Overview,” 14-Dec-2012.

''Summary:''

''pg. 10 - outlines strategic goals. #2 - foster development of next generation instrumentation, resulting in more widespread use and open up new areas of research/research training. #3 integrate research w. education''

''pg. 11 - development effort is: (1)adding capabilities not available from vendors (2)requires design work and (3) a cross-functional team (4) work (5) over an extended period of time (6) may require component fabrication (7)may involve risk''

''pg. 15 - will not fund: general purpose lab equipment (i.e computers) or platforms (i.e vehicles), instruments used for science/engineering education, multiple instruments (unless they act as an integrated system)''

Office of Integrative Activities, “Major Research Instrumentation Brochure.” National Science Foundation.

''MRI Goals - catalyzing knowledge and discoveries, empowering the nations scientists & engineers, building capacity for a diverse workforce, develop next generation instrumentation, promote academic & private sector partnerships'' 

 <blockquote>
The MRI program does not support requests for general purpose ancillary laboratory equipment or multiple instruments that serve to outfit a laboratory or research environment. The MRI program also does not support the acquisition or development of instrumentation used primarily for science and engineering education courses
</blockquote>


** Funding of development of scientific equipment through an SBIR program [http://www.sbir.gov/]
** Specific calls -- e.g. engineering type work to design equipment like this: [http://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=13346]

==Bayh-Dole==
* Summary - initial law
* any updates

===Critical literature of Bayh-Dole===
* Joshua M. Pearce "[http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/491519a Make nanotechnology research open-source]", ''Nature'' '''491''', pp. 519–521(2012). and  Joshua M. Pearce, Open-source nanotechnology: Solutions to a modern intellectual property tragedy,''Nano Today'', Available online 29 May 2013 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.nantod.2013.04.001 (open access coming soon).
** Nanotech thicket created by BD encouraging patenting of basic science - stalls innovation

==How does the NSF decide on what is funded?==
* How they work - http://www.nsf.gov/about/how.jsp
* Merit Review - http://www.nsf.gov/bfa/dias/policy/merit_review/
* Interview NSF on the phone how choices are made for what to make CFP on?

===Critical literature on the NSF===
* http://nsfisbroken.proboards.com/index.cgi
* https://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=dr-no-money

==How does the NSF determine return on investment?==
* quantifiable metrics, what are their results

==Science equipment spending==
* How big is the scientific equipment industry?
** How profitable is it?
* How much money do US scientists spend on equipment per year?
* What are the big volume items - e.g. stuff that everyone of one type has in their lab?
* What are the big $ total items (e.g. sure everyone has test-tubes but if every school needs an SEM...)