Search engines on topics related to the general focus of Appropedia. More specific search engines should be placed on or linked from the particular topic page.

Note that not all content found with these search engines is [[open license]] - some is merely [[open access]], and may be linked and quoted, but not copied extensively. Each search hit needs to be examined separately - for example, any non-classified work by a US federal government employee is public domain,[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Public_domain#U.S._government_works] but if another person or body produces work for the US government, it is merely open-access.{{fact}} US state government works are usually ''not'' public domain.

See '''[[Custom searches]]''' for a number of searches on [[open content]] and relevant topics material. Other searches are given below.

==General open license and open access searches==
* [http://www.justfreebooks.info/ Just Free Books - A search engine to find only free ebooks - eBooks in English and Spanish]. Searches the content of more than 450 web sites, including gutenberg.org, wikibooks.org and archive.org. 
* [[Appropedia open license search]] - focused on sources which are predominantly open license or public domain.

==More specific==

* [http://www.google.com/coop/cse?cx=001750287657787718454%3Ae-mcrgggoqk ICT4Peace], Mapping the use of ICT in peacebuilding and conflict transformation. 
* [http://code.google.com/edu/curriculumsearch/ Google Code for Educators - Curriculum Search] - about computer science in general, but does yield [http://code.google.com/edu/curriculumsearch/results.html?cx=017576662512468239146%3Aomuauf_lfve&q=ict4d&sa=Search&client=google-coop-np&cof=FORID%3A9%3BCX%3ACurriculum 7 hits for [[ICT4D]]], more hits for sustainable, and appears to include some topics well outside of computer science. 
* [http://www.google.com/coop/cse?cx=009941892632664145530%3Aglw3czclbti Appropriate Technology Search], Sustainable Tech Sources for the Developing World

[[Category:Internet resources]]