Seed balls, simply put, are a method for distributing seeds by encasing them in a mixture of clay and compost. This protects the seeds by preventing them from drying out in the sun, getting eaten by birds, or from blowing away.

Seed balls are scattered directly on the ground, not planted. [[Self-sufficiency]] and sustainability website [http://www.pathtofreedom.com/pathproject/gardening/seedballs.shtml Path To Freedom] says seed balls are useful for seeding dry, thin and compacted soils and for reclaiming derelict ground (which is why they are often used in [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guerrilla_gardening guerilla gardening]). Seed balls are particularly useful in dry and arid areas where rainfall is highly unpredictable. I like ‘em because they’re easy to chuck over fences into empty lots.

You can “sow” your seed balls on a sunny day – and just leave them. When sufficient rain has permeated the clay, the seeds inside sprout and are aided by the nutrients and beneficial soil microbes surrounding them. I put one (shown above) in my garden so I can track its progress and show my readers that – yes! – seed balls do actually work.

In fact, the seed ball method has been working for centuries. It's been written{{fact}} (''where?'') that some North American First Nations’ tribes used seed balls. More recently natural farming pioneer [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Masanobu_Fukuoka Masanobu Fukuoka] has experimented with them and promoted them.<ref>[http://permaculturetokyo.blogspot.com/2006/10/seed-balls.html Seed balls] - ''Permaculture Reflections'' blog</ref> And in New York City, [http://www.lizchristygarden.org/lcbh_files/seed_bomb.html seed bombs] were used in 1973’s [http://www.ecotippingpoints.org/indepth/newyorkgarden.html revitalization] of the Bowery neighbourhood and the development of the city’s [http://www.lizchristygarden.org/ first community garden.]

[http://www.heavypetal.ca/uploads/archived/seedball.jpg Image of a seedball]

More recently, they are used as a key ingredient in [[guerrilla gardening]].

== Notes and references ==
{{reflist}}

== See also ==

* [[How to make a seed ball]]

== Interwiki links ==

* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seed_bomb Seed bombing]

== External links ==
* http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dWyduWsoy8o video of seedballs dropped on barren, rocky dessert.
* [http://ask.metafilter.com/57174/We-need-a-better-name-than-seed-ball other names] for seed balls
* [http://heavypetal.ca/tag/seed-bomb/ Heavy Petal posts tagged with "seed-bomb"]
* Posts in Imagina Canarias (Spanish blog) with "seed balling": [http://imagina-canarias.blogspot.com/2008/06/seedballing-con-perdn.html 1], [http://imagina-canarias.blogspot.com/2008/06/semillas-boliche-para-selva-comestible.html 2] (in minute 17 a machine is showed which makes 40 thousand seedballs a day, enough (they say) for an acre a day) and [http://imagina-canarias.blogspot.com/2009/02/bombas-de-semillas.html 3].
* Post in Temperate Climate Permaculture shows how the Von Bachmayr drum works [http://tcpermaculture.blogspot.com.es/2011/05/permaculture-projects-seed-balls.html 4].
* Further links:
** http://milkwood.net/2011/08/29/getting-serious-about-seed-balls/
** http://www.permies.com/t/8355/permaculture/Seedball-machines
** https://sites.google.com/site/onseedballs/How
** http://seedball.com/
** http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/greenaid/greenaid-seedbomb-vending-for-greener-cities
** http://guerrillagardening.org/community/index.php?topic=3852.0
** http://www.small-farm-permaculture-and-sustainable-living.com/seed_balls.html
* And all variations of this: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Eob-nAFW9w

{{attrib heavypetal|url=http://heavypetal.ca/archives/2007/03/a-brief-history-of-the-seed-ball/}}

[[Category:Urban agriculture]]
[[Category:Permaculture techniques]]
[[Category:Seeds]]