The '''Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030''' (Sendai Framework) is the next framework instrument after the Hyogo Framework for Action (HFA) 2005-2015. It offers a 15-year blueprint for disaster reduction actions and goals, seeking to be action-oriented and forward-looking. 

The Sendai Framework was adopted at the Third United Nations World Conference in Sendai, Japan on 18th March, 2015.

(This is a work in progress.)

== Content of the Sendai Framework ==

The Sendai Framework places a stronger focus on on disaster risk management (DRM), emphasising the "risk" aspect and the need to reduce existing risk and prevent new risks from arising. Other elements of the instrument includes seven global targets, strengthening of resilience and an expectation that reduction of disaster risk is an expected outcome.

In addition, the Sendai Framework contains a set of guiding principles.

This framework document aims to improve public investment in DRM, effect greater understanding of disaster risk (such as by making science more prominent – para 19(g)), and through improved governance. It also seeks to increase preparedness and to ensure better linking of development assistance with disaster risk reduction mechanisms (as co-benefits). Another aspect highlighted by the document is the challenge of climate change.

== Sources and Citations ==

*Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 at http://www.wcdrr.org/uploads/Sendai_Framework_for_Disaster_Risk_Reduction_2015-2030.pdf

[[Category:Emergency management]]
[[Category:Disaster risk reduction]]
[[Category:Environmental governance]]