{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=HIV/AIDS
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Clinical trial, Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Shangring.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
HIV/AIDS is a devastating epidemic that affects millions of people around the globe. Circumcision has been shown to reduce HIV/AIDS transmission by up to 60%.(citation needed) There is a need for low-cost and easy-to-use technologies that enable health care providers with limited training to perform the procedure.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The ShangRing is a new circumcision tool that helps health care providers with limited training to perform circumcision.  There is no cutting or suturing of the foreskin.  The device consists of two parts (rings).  The outer ring applies constant pressure to the foreskin, which leads to the foreskin’s removal.  The device must remain on the penis for 5-7 days.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Shang Jianzhong, a Chinese inventor from Wuhu City, China, invented and patented ShangRing.
*Manufacturer location: China.
*Manufacturer: Wuhu Santa Medical Equipment Technology Co. Ltd. Website is found [http://www.snnda.com/enindex.asp here].

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
The ShangRing has been tested in China, Kenya and the United States. It is currently undergoing testing in the latter two countries. It is being used routinely for non-therapeutic, non-preventative circumcision in the United Kingdom [https://www.circumcision-london.co.uk/adult-circumcision/ at this private clinic in London].

==Funding Source==
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Cheng, Y., Peng, Y. F., Liu, Y. D., Tian, L., & Lu, N. Q. (2009). A recommendable standard protocol of adult male circumcision with the Chinese Shang Ring: Outcomes of 328 cases in China. Zhonghua Nan Ke Xue, 15(7): 584-592.

Masson, P., Li, P. S., Barone, M. A., & Goldstein, M. (2010). The ShangRing device for simplified adult circumcision: Abstract: Nature reviews urology. Nature Reviews Urology, 7: 638-642.

===Other internally generated reports===
Sokal, D. C., Ndede, F., Barone, M., Li, P. S., & Goldstein, M. (2010, July). Put a ring on it: How the Shang Ring might accelerate MC programs.  Retrieved from International AIDS Conference Lecture.

===Externally generated reports===
ShangRing: New male circumcision device for HIV prevention.(2008, Aug 2). Science 2.0. Link available [http://www.science20.com/news_releases/shangring_new_male_circumcision_device_for_hiv_prevention here].

The Shang Ring: A novel male circumcision device for HIV prevention. (2010). Clinical Trials Search. Link available [http://www.clinicaltrialssearch.org/the-shang-ring-a-novel-male-circumcision-device-for-hiv-prevention-nct00993811.html here].

===IP and copyright===
The Chinese patent can be found [http://www.circlist.com/instrstechs/shangpatent.html here].
US patent: US 2008/0154283 A1

===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===
An application for FDA approval has been filed.