Shared space in urban and residential environments offers the potential for social interaction, community, and  resource-sharing, allowing the enjoyment of the resources with lower environmental impact.

== Apartments ==

Shared space in apartment buildings has been attempted but with little success.

The [[Highpoint I]]{{w|Highpoint I}} apartment, built in England in 1935, was forward thinking and highly praised, but the plan for its foyer areas to function as a social forum never worked in practice. Neither was the roof terrace (an important element in [[Le Corbusier]]'s theory of modern architecture) furnished or greatly used, though it was originally intended to be.<ref>[http://www.architectureweek.com/2003/0409/culture_1-1.html Lubetkin's High Point] by John Allan, ''ArchitectureWeek''. Note that most of the article is on [http://www.architectureweek.com/2003/0409/culture_1-2.html page 2])</ref>

== Cohousing ==

[[Cohousing]] is built around the idea of shared space, balanced by adequate personal space to allow privacy when desired. Thus the people who choose to live in cohousing are consciously choosing a more community-oriented living environment (an [[intentional community]] with more personal space) so this may be expected to help the spaces work better. 

How well do they work? Anecdotally some work well, but has a study been done?{{sp}}

[http://www.360realtors.tatavaluehomesdestination150.com/blog/benefits-of-buying-apartment-in-destination-150-blid-11238 Tata Destination 150] Apartment By Tata Value Homes in Noida
==Notes==
<small><references/></small>

{{stub}}

[[Category:Architecture]]
[[Category:Community and design]]
[[Category:Land use]]
[[Category:Sharing]]
[[Category:Urban planning]]