[[Communities]] such as [[Appropedia]] build [[open content]] online that is useful to many people, including those without [[internet access]]. Then there are several ways this can reach the users/beneficiaries, mostly in a "free market" way. For example:
* They access the internet via [[computer]]
* They access the internet via [[mobile phone]] (becoming much more widespread in Africa and around the globe)
* A friend or relative accesses the information, prints and shares it. Many villages have young people who work or study in a city where they're more likely to have internet access.
* A friend or relative accesses the information, and tells them what they've learnt (in conversation, by phone or text message)
* A [[teacher]] accesses the information, and shares it with their students
* A [[development worker]] accesses the information, and applies it in their own work, shares it with people they work with, and/or runs an education program (for a day, a week, a year) using this material.
* A [[development organization]] or motivated individual prints and distributes information.
* Teachers, development workers, development organizations and motivated individual can burn CDs, DVDs or USBs of content bundles and share them through similar channels, where computers are available but a good internet connection is not.

This mostly relies on the initiative of individuals, with a few supportive actions from us:
* We have changed to a [[Appropedia:Copyrights|license]] ([[CC-BY-SA]]) which allows for printed copies to be freely made, with a simple attribution.
* We have [[Appropedia:Offline browsing|instructions for how to download and browse an offline copy of Appropedia]], and are now setting up an automatic weekly [[Appropedia:Current dump|dump of content]]. This needs more work to make it easier, but it's already possible to get and use an offline copy.

The [[Appropedia community]] could do more, by working with people focused on offline content. Some of us know people working on this, and have given thought to it - see the notes at [[Offline content collaboration]].

We're interested in taking a more active role in reaching people who are offline. If we find even a modest amount of external funding, we could do something very significant - especially as we are already working in the field, have contacts and have been developing strategies.

== Technologies ==

* CDs, DVDs or USBs
* [[WikiReader]][http://thewikireader.com]{{w|WikiReader}} - designed for Wikipedia, and thus can be made to work with MediaWiki sites such as Appropedia and Akvopedia. WikiReader works in a disconnected offline context, perfect for places such as rural [[Mali]] or outlying parts of rural [[Bangladesh]].  
* In a semi-connected, partly online context: smartphones, mobile internet and standard broadband are available, but the availability of connections are relatively scarce and/or expensive. Many villages have at least one person with a phone, often acting as an agent, charging a small fee for people to use the phone. In this context, a possible solution is a soft WikiReader client that runs on a smartphone against a WikiReader database on a memory card in the phone.

== See also ==

* [[Appropedia:Offline browsing]]
* [[Offline content collaboration]]


[[Category:Information channels]]
[[Category:Collaborations]]
[[Category:Offline content]]