

'''ShikshaGuru IT Services Private Limited '''<ref>{{Cite web|title = Educational Portal Explorer - ProPublica|url = https://www.shikshaguru.com |website = ProPublica|accessdate = 2016-5-05}}</ref> is an internet technology company incorporated on May 5, 2016.This company operates its services under its banner/domain www.shikshaGuru.com  . The company is a professionally managed  with membership strength(10-50) & is headed by executive turned entrepreneur Sanjay Munshi  who has experience of 15 years  in setting up and managing multinational corporations. This project has been further fuelled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of digital India. The company is in a startup stage and primarily driven by social cause of simplifying educational process and making it easily accessible to each & every strata of society across all geographical barriers. This company aims to address all the complex needs of society with regard to education. The company has launched its first phase of operation on May 5, 2016.

== History ==

Personal experiences & challenges faced by executive turned entrepreneur Sanjay Munshi with regard to his children’s education prompted him to think creatively & explore technology options to help millions of students across all geographies with regard to their educational needs. Sanjay  was keen to take a social cause and make it his mission of life .He found this lacuna in the system  an appropriate social cause that needs attention. He decided to integrate all the elements including students, parents, teaching faculty, education industry & offer them  solutions using cutting edge technology. Hence the birth of  the Company  ShikshaGuru IT Services Private Limited .

== Investments ==

The Company currently is privately held and all initial investments are through internal resources of promoters. However , the company is open to valuable partners , venture capitalists, financial institutions willing for equity participation. The sole aim of funds from these sources is to build, expand & grow this digital institution.

== Brief Details ==

*Promoters

# Sanjay Munshi, Founder and Managing Director
# Moti  Lal

*Technical Director & CEO

#Pinki Sharma, MCA, Experience Software Development & Project Management.

== Co Founders /Team ==

#Sanjay Munshi
#Pinki Sharma 
#Allwyn Varghese
#[https://www.facebook.com/raj.wasim.1 Wasim Raza ]
#[https://www.facebook.com/bhattrk94 Rakesh Bhatt] 
#Sonam  Bhatnagar
#Srikanta Nayak
#[https://www.linkedin.com/in/akash-paul-3aa91b43 Akash Paul]


*First Year of Operation 2016-17
*Turnover -   N. A

== Website ==

[http://www.shikshaguru.com www.shikshaguru.com]