{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Physical disabilities
|Classification=Treatment
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Hipconstruct.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Due to the aging population and the increasing incidence of osteoporosis, hip fractures are becoming a common problem globally.  Specifically in low-income countries, hip fractures are problematic because surgical intervention is rare.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The SIGN Hip Construct is a hip bone implant made of a compression screw and a plate that holds the structure in place while the fractured bone heals.

==Relevance to developing country settings==
This device was originally designed for use in Cambodia and Myanmar. Clinical trials were conducted in several countries including Afghanistan, Cambodia, and Myanmar.

==Manufacturing==
*Manufacturer: Surgical Implant Generation Network
*Manufacturer location: Richmond, Washington, USA
 
==Funding Source==
This project receives philanthropic funding from the Washington Global Health Alliance and Donatelle.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Justin, R et al. (Dec 2009). "Development and Biomechanical Testing of the SIGN Hip Construct." Techniques in Orthopaedics. Link available [http://journals.lww.com/techortho/Fulltext/2009/12000/Development_and_Biomechanical_Testing_of_the_SIGN.7.aspx here].

Zirkle, L et al. (Dec 2009). "SIGN Hip Construct Surgical Technique and Early Clinical Experience." Techniques in Orthopaedics. Link available [http://journals.lww.com/techortho/Fulltext/2009/12000/SIGN_Hip_Construct_Surgical_Technique_and_Early.6.aspx here].

===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===
FDA approved, September 2002

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->