{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Prototype
|Location=Africa
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
About one fifth of all fetal and maternal death is caused by obstructive labor. The only known solution to this problem is to perform an emergency Caesarian section, but this requires a surgeon to perform the operation. Typically, the only accessible practitioner in low-resource settings is a midwife that is typically not trained to deal with this type of problem.

==Detailed description of the solution==
This device is a unique, simulation-based method to teach healthcare providers in low-resource settings how to perform an emergency C-section. The training system includes a teaching video and a physical model of a pregnant abdomen with obstructed labor. The video provides instruction in the anesthesia, anatomy, decision making, and techniques of performing an emergency C-section. Once familiarized with the procedures outlined in the training video, the trainee can then practice the operation the physical model until he or she is proficient in executing the operative procedure.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Operative Experience, Inc.
*Manufacturer location: Elkton, MD USA
 
==Funding Source==
Finalist in Saving Lives at Birth competition

==References==

===Other internally generated reports===
Elkton, Maryland company recognized by USAID, Bill & Melinda Gates foundation for live-saving childbirth innovation. (2011, July 30). Retrieved from [http://operativeexperience.com/?news=elkton-maryland-company-recognized-by-usaid-bill-melinda-gates-foundation-for-live-saving-childbirth-innovation here]
===Externally generated reports===
Simulation based training for emergency Cesarean section. (2011). Retrieved from [http://savinglivesatbirth.net/summaries/43 here]

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->