The '''Slingshot''' is a water purification machine developed by [[Dean Kamen]]{{w|Dean Kamen}}. It takes in contaminated water, even raw sewage, and separates out the clean water by vaporizing it. It then shoots the remaining sludge out through a plastic tube. 

It is about the size of a washing machine and is claimed to produce 1000 L of clean water per day. 

It needs a source of heat - Kamen thinks it could be use the waste heat of his other device: [[Kamen's Stirling engine]]. 

==Cost==
Kamen hopes to get the device down to US$1000 to $2000.

This is far more expensive than other options, some of which cost nearly nothing, such as the [[cloth filter]] and [[solar water disinfection]], compared at [[Choosing water supply and purification methods]]. However, the Slingshot's claimed rate of production is far higher, which may make it cost-effective.

To calculate the capital cost's contribution to the cost of the water (roughly):
:If we take a payback period of 3 years, and assume:
:* perfect performance, 
:* a cost of $2000 
:that gives:
::365 d/yr * 3yr * 2000L/d = 1095000 L
::$2000/1095000 = approx 0.2 cents/L. 

This price seems reasonable. The actual effectiveness of the device depends on how well these assumptions hold, in particular:
*Whether the machine is really reliable;
*Whether it really can be run on free waste heat. (This appears to be the biggest challenge, as the alternative would be expensive fuel);
*Whether it can really run on low cost, easily accessible water sources (such as waste water);
*Whether it can really be made for $2000 or less, and whether maintenance will add significantly to the cost. 
*Whether there are significant additional costs or difficulties not listed here (such as transporting the devices to remote areas).

==See also==
*[[Choosing water supply and purification methods]]

==External links==

* [http://business2.blogs.com/business2blog/2006/02/dean_kamens_lat.html The Next Net: Dean Kamen's Newest Slingshot], 2006.
* [http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/09/25/us-cocacola-water-idUSBRE88O0W120120925 Coke, Segway inventor team up on clean water project], ''Reuters'', 2012.

{{stub}}

[[Category:Water purification]]