{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality 
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Smartdiaph.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
In developing countries, it is  challenging to identify women at risk of preterm labor and provide early treatment.  As a consequence, preterm birth affects at least 1 in 10 babies globally and is a leading cause of infant mortality.  Thus it is important to find a means to monitor early changes in the cervix such as collagen and water levels prior to childbirth.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The SMART Diaphragm monitors cervical collagen levels and wirelessly transmits information on low collagen levels to physicians. This early identification of at-risk women in remote areas can enable more rapid routing of patients to secondary health facilities.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Larry Rand, MD (Project Leader) and colleagues at the University of California-San Francisco, USA. Website for the device available [http://www.smartdiaphragm.com/ here].
*Manufacturer location: The University of California-San Francisco, USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
This device is currently being tested in San Francisco, California, USA.

==Funding Source==
This device received funding from the following sources:
*Gates Foundation Grand Challenge Round 6 Award. Link available [http://www.grandchallenges.org/explorations/Pages/grantsawarded.aspx?Round=all&Phase=all&ProjectID=597 here].
*Vodafone/mHealth Alliance ($50,000). Link available [http://project.vodafone-us.com/past-competitions/2011-competition/2011-winners/smart-diaphragm/ here].

==References==
===Other internally generated reports===
Bole K. (2011, April 22). UCSF team takes second place for 'Smart' Diaphragm device in national innovation competition. Retrieved January 6, 2013. Link available [http://www.ucsf.edu/news/2011/04/9748/ucsf-team-takes-second-place-national-innovation-competition here].

SMART Diaphragm Study. (2012). What is the SMART Diaphragm? Retrieved January 6, 2013. Link available [http://www.smartdiaphragm.com/?q=node/17 here].

===Externally generated reports===
Heatwole A. (2011, April 22). SMART Diaphragm: changing the way doctors detect high-risk pregnancies. Retrieved January 6, 2013. Link available [http://www.mobileactive.org/case-studies/smart-diaphragm-changing-way-doctors-look-high-risk-pregnancies here].

Grand Challenges in Global Health. (2011, April). A “Smart Diaphragm” for the early detection of preterm labor. Retrieved January 6, 2013. Link available [http://www.grandchallenges.org/explorations/Pages/grantsawarded.aspx?Round=all&Phase=all&ProjectID=597 here].

Vodafone Americas Foundation. (2011, April 12). Three pioneering projects win coveted Vodafone and mHealth Alliance Wireless Innovation Awards. Retrieved January 6, 2013. Link available [http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/04/12/idUS142523+12-Apr-2011+BW20110412 here].

Vodafone Americas Foundation. (2011). 2011 Winning Project: SMART Diaphragm. Retrieved January 6, 2013. Link available [http://project.vodafone-us.com/past-competitions/2011-competition/2011-winners/smart-diaphragm/ here].

<!-- Add relevant categories, such as [[Category:HIV]] or [[Category:Malaria]] below this line -->