{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=HIV/AIDS
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Guava automated.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
CD4 T cell counts are necessary for the monitoring and diagnosis of HIV/AIDS. These tests are often difficult and expensive. A low-cost, easy to use option is needed for use in resource-limited settings.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The Guava Auto CD4/CD4% System is a unique bench-top instrument equiped with acquisition software that health providers can use to easily monitor patients' T-lymphocytes.  The Guava Auto CD4/CD4% System provides reliable results with minimum technical expertise to operate.  The system provides absolute CD4 counts, CD4% of total lymphocytes, and total lymphocyte count.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Guava Technologies, Inc., but Millipore acquired Guava in 2009.
*Manufacturing: Headquarters located in Billerica, Massachusetts, USA.

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Testing of the device has been done in the United States.  Performance has been evaluated in multiple laboratories against several well-accepted methods for determining absolute CD4 counts and CD4% values. Studies were performed on both adult and pediatric HIV samples as well as normal samples. Auto CD4/CD4% Assay test results were compared to results from other well established methods for CD4 analysis, showing consistently comparable results.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
The 2009 WHO "Review of CD4 Technologies" stated that there have been no peer-reviewed independent performance evaluation data for the Guava Auto CD4.  PDF cited [http://www.who.int/hiv/topics/treatment/review-of-cd4-technologies.pdf here].

===Other internally generated reports===
Company and product information for Millipore found [http://www.millipore.com/searchsummary.do?tabValue=&q=Guava+auto+CD4 here].

Comany product data sheet for Millipore found [http://www.millipore.com/publications.nsf/a73664f9f981af8c852569b9005b4eee/c14577b878769878852577cb0039f56a/$FILE/DS2347EN00.pdf here].

===Externally generated reports===
Mergia, A., Elad, K., Sharp, M., Fishwild, D., O’Connell, B., Bredt, B., & Tyagarajan, K. (February, 2005). Performance of Aged, TransFix-Treated Blood in the Guava EasyCD4 and EasyCD8 Assays. Guava Technologies. Presented at the 12th Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections, Boston, Massachusetts USA.