{{TOCright}}
The HBCSL is building an eco-hostel in [[Humboldt County]].  This page is a place to add or select topics for the [[Humboldt Bay Center for Sustainable Living]].  Do you know of a product or process that you think the eco-hostel should use?  Put it on the [[#Research topics|research topics list]] below. Do you know have knowledge in an area that is useful for the eco-hostel?  Add it to Appropedia.  Check out the [[#Pages already in the HBCSL category|Pages already in the HBCSL category]] to see what has already been added for potential use in the Humboldt Bay Eco Hostel.

==Research topics==
Feel free to add your topic here (using <tt><nowiki>*[[Needed research topic]] --~~~~</nowiki></tt>), or select a page to start editing<small><sup>See the [[#Instructions|instructions below]]</sup></small>:
* [[VOCs in weathersealing caulking]] --[[User:Lonny|Lonny]] 02:25, 14 September 2010 (UTC)
* [[VOCs in OSB (oriented strand board)]] --[[User:Lonny|Lonny]] 02:25, 14 September 2010 (UTC)
* [[Recycled content substitutes for asphalt shingles]] --[[User:Lonny|Lonny]] 02:25, 14 September 2010 (UTC)
* [[US FSC Decking]] --[[User:Lonny|Lonny]] 02:25, 14 September 2010 (UTC)
* [[US FSC Sheathing]] --[[User:Lonny|Lonny]] 02:25, 14 September 2010 (UTC)
* [[US FSC Framing]] --[[User:Lonny|Lonny]] 02:25, 14 September 2010 (UTC)

==Pages already in the HBCSL category==
Many of these pages are currently student projects.  Feel free to comment on them.
<categorytree mode=pages>HBCSL</categorytree>

==Instructions==
Feel free to add a topic or product that you think needs to be researched by:
# [[Special:Userlogin|Logging in]]
# clicking edit 
# typing below in the format <nowiki>*[[Needed research topic]] --~~~~</nowiki> (Replace "Needed research topic" with your own idea.  The tildes automatically make a signature.)
# Summarizing and saving

You can also start adding research by:
# clicking a link (red links have no content, blue links already have some content)
# clicking edit (a red link will bring you straight to the edit window)
# adding your content
#* If it was a red link add {{Cl|HBCSL}} to the bottom of the page so that it is categorized under [[HBCSL]].
# Summarizing and saving

See [[Help:Contents|help]] for more on editing Appropedia.

[[Category:HBCSL]]