{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Maternal mortality
|Classification=Preventative
|Scope=Clinical trial
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Imageneeded.png
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Postpartum hemorrhage is one of the leading causes of maternal mortality in low-resource settings.  The CAPP (Tire/Pressure Circumferential Abdominal-Pelvic Pressure) device is a simple contraption made of basic, local materials such as bike tires that aims to control postpartum hemorrhage by reducing blood flow to the pelvic organs.

==Detailed description of the solution==
The CAPP device consists of three mountain bike tubes that are tied around a woman's waist and legs and function to restrict blood from flowing to the uterus of the hemorrhaging woman. One tube is placed around each leg and one on the lower abdomen/pelvic area.  Each tube is then secured tightly with sheets.  A bike pump is used to inflate the tire tubes, which apply direct pressure to restrict blood flow to the pelvic area.

==Describe its relevance for resource-constrained settings==
The CAPP device is especially useful in low-income, resource-constrained settings for several reasons. It is comprised of rudimentary materials such as a bike pump, bicycle inner tubes, and sheets that can be easily obtained.  It does not rely upon an electrical source.  It is also inexpensive, portable, and highly effective.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Nancy Kerr and Mark Hauswald of Global Health Partnerships
 
==Funding Source==
Funding is provided by the Gates Foundation's Grand Challenges Initiative, Round 6, on April 6, 2011.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Hauswald, M., & Williamson M. R., & Gillian, B. M., & Kerr, N. L., & Edgar-Mied, V. L. (2010).  Use of an improvised pneumatic anti-shock garment and a non-pneumatic anti-shock garment to control pelvic flow. International Journal of Emergency Medicine, 3(3), 173-175.

===Other internally generated reports===
Carr, S. (2011).  UNM Investigators receive $100, 000 Grand Challenges Explorations Grant.  The University of New Mexico.  Link available [http://news.unm.edu/2011/04/unm-investigators-receive-100000-grand-challenges-explorations-grant-for-groundbreaking-research-in-global-health-and-development/ here].

===Externally generated reports===
Davis, M.  (2011).  Local Docs Win $100,000 Grant for Life Saving Device.  Watch Newspapers. Link available [http://marketplace.telluridewatch.com/bookmark/13453182-Local-Docs-Win-100-000-Grant-for-Life-Saving-Device here].

Grand Challenges in Global Health. (2011).  Grand Challenges Explorations Grants.  Link available [http://www.grandchallenges.org/explorations/Pages/grantsawarded.aspx?Round=all&Phase=all&ProjectID=611 here].