This is the CSS style sheet used for [[Appropedia's 13 theme for WordPress]],

The current edition has lots of commented out colors and other bits of code, which need to be cleaned out.

<pre>
/* THEME INFO AT BOTTOM */  /* Basics and Typography */  body {
    margin: 0;
    padding: 0;
/*    background: #4E5706 *//*url(images/bg.gif)*/;
    color: #000;
    font-size: x-small;
    font-family: "Lucida Sans Unicode", Tahoma, Arial, sans-serif;
    text-align: center;
    voice-family: "\"}\"";
    voice-family: inherit;
    font-size: small;
}
html>body {
    font-size: small;
}
p {
    margin: 1.2em 0;
    padding: 0;
    font-size: 1em;
    line-height: 1.5em;
}
ol, ul {
    margin: 1.2em 0 1.2em 2.4em;
    padding: 0;
    font-size: 1em;
    line-height: 1.5em;
}
h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 {
    clear: both;
    margin: 1.2em 0 1.2em 0;
    padding: 0;
    color: #1E674E;/*#4E5706; */
    font-family: Georgia, serif;
}
h1, h2 {
    font-size: 1.6em;
}
h3 {
    font-size: 1.4em;
}
h4 {
    font-size: 1.3em;
}
h5 {
    font-size: 1.2em;
}
h6 {
    font-size: 1.1em;
}
a {
    text-decoration: none;   
}
a:link {
    color: #1E674E;/* #3DCE9C is reference color (based on logo?). 1E674E = half; try 2/3,=#298968  */
}
a:visited, a:active {
    color: #48707A; /*#727A7A is too like normal body text...; #487064 stands out a bit but is very pale ; try starting from the standard link color of #1E674E, and trying half as bright/intense: #0F3427 Too dark? and 2/3 as bright: #144534. too similar?    So try: #3DCE9C  Or just go more blue? */
/* the reference color with R & G at 2/3 the intensity, B at full: 29899C.  R & G at half B at full: 1E679C.  R & G at half, B at 2/3: 1E6734 */
}
a:hover {
    background-color: #ADABAB;/*#4E5706;*/
    color: #FFF;
}
.left {
    float: left;
        padding-top: 8px;
        padding-right: 8px;
        padding-bottom: 8px;
        padding-left: 8px;
}
.right {
    float: right;
        padding-top: 8px;
        padding-right: 8px;
        padding-bottom: 8px;
        padding-left: 8px;
}
#sidebar a:link, #footer a:link {
    color: #141112 /*#C79A65*/;
}
#sidebar a:visited, #sidebar a:active, #footer a:visited, #footer a:active {
    color: #596C69;/*#C0996C;*/
}
#sidebar a:hover, #footer a:hover {
    background-color: #ADABAB;
    color: #000;
}
blockquote {
    margin: 0 20px;
    padding: 0 20px;
    border-left: 4px solid #1E674E;/*#4E5706;*/
    font-size: 0.92em;
}
code {
    color: #333;
    font-family: monospace;
}
input, textarea, select {   
    background-color: #FFF;
    border: 1px solid #1E674E;/*#4E5706;*/
    color: #000;
    font: 1em "Lucida Sans Unicode", Tahoma, Arial, sans-serif;
}
input.submit, input[type=submit] {
    border: 1px solid #000;
    background-color: #1E674E;/*#4E5706;*/
    color: #FFF;
}
form, img {
    border: 0;
    padding="0 10px 0 10px"
    margin: 10;
}
/* The Layout */
#headwrapper {
    height: 350px;
/*    background: url(images/bg2.gif) repeat-x;*/
}
#header {
    margin: 0 auto;
    width: 765px;
    height: 85px;
/*    background: url(images/header.gif) no-repeat;*/
    text-align: left;
    overflow: hidden;
}
    /* Header Styles */
    #title {
        margin: 0;
        padding: 10px 0 0 237px;
        font-size: 2.6em;
        font-variant: small-caps;
    }
    #title a {
        display: block;
        float: left;
        padding: 10px 25px 0 25px;
        height: 55px;
/*        background: #A79E45 url(images/title.gif) repeat-x;*/
        color: #2C3101;
        voice-family: "\"}\"";
        voice-family: inherit;
        height: 45px;
    }
    html>body #title a {
        height: 45px;
    }
#wrapper {
    margin: -265px auto 0 auto;
    width: 765px;
/*    background: #eeffff url(images/wrapper.gif) repeat-y; */
    text-align: left;
    font-size: 0.92em;
}
#content {
    float: right;
    padding: 0 38px 0 23px;
    width: 538px;
/*    background: url(images/content.gif) no-repeat 100% 0; */
    voice-family: "\"}\"";
    voice-family: inherit;
    width: 477px;
}
html>body #content {
    width: 477px;
}
#sidebar {
    float: right;
    padding: 265px 15px 0 27px;
    width: 227px;
    background: url(images/sidebar.gif) no-repeat;
    color: #445555 ;
    font-size: 0.92em;
    voice-family: "\"}\"";
    voice-family: inherit;
    width: 185px;
}
html>body #sidebar {
    width: 185px;
}
* html #content, * html #sidebar {
    overflow: hidden; /* For IE */
}
#footer {
    clear: both;
/*    background: url(images/bg.gif);*/
    color: #000;
    font-size: 0.92em;
    position: relative; /* IE disappearing background fix */
}
    /* Footer Styles */
    #footer p {
        margin: 0;
        padding: 2em 0 1.8em 242px;
/*        background: url(images/footer.gif) no-repeat;*/
    }
    * html #footer p {
        padding-top: 1em; /* IE doubles top padding, reason unknown */
    }
/* Sidebar Styles */
#sidebar ul {
    margin: 0;
    list-style-type: none;
}
#sidebar h2 {
    margin: 0 -15px;
    padding: 5px 0 0 15px;
    height: 28px;
/*    background: url(images/sidebarheader.gif) no-repeat; */
    color: #212503;
    font-size: 1.2em;
    voice-family: "\"}\"";
    voice-family: inherit;
    height: 23px;
}
html>body #sidebar h2 {
    height: 23px;
}
#sidebar h2 a, #sidebar h2 a:link, #sidebar h2 a:visited, #sidebar h2 a:active {
    color: #212503;
}
#sidebar ul ul, #sidebar p {
    margin: 0.6em 0;
}
#sidebar ul ul ul {
    margin: 0;
}
#sidebar ul ul li {
    padding: 0 0 0 15px;
    • /*background: url(images/bullet.gif) no-repeat 0 0.55em;*/
}
/* Blog and Comments */
.post {
    margin: 0 0 1em 0;
    padding: 0.1em 0 18px 0;
/*    background: url(images/divider.gif) no-repeat 50% 100%; */
}
.posttitle {
    margin: 0.6em 0 0 0;
    padding: 0 0 0.1em 0;
    background: url(images/underline.gif) no-repeat 0 100%;
}
.postdate {
    margin: 0.1em 0 1.2em 0;
    color: #7C7D66;
    font-size: 0.92em;
}
.postmeta {
}
.commentlist {
    margin: 0 0 0 1.2em;
    padding: 0 0 0.4em 0;
}
.commentauthor {
    margin: 0;
    padding: 0 0 0.1em 0;
    background: url(images/underline.gif) no-repeat 0 100%;
    font-size: 1.1em;
}
.commentauthor a {
    text-decoration: none;
}
.commentdate {
    margin-top: 0.2em;
    color: #7C7D66;
    font-size: 0.92em;
}
#comment {
    width: 98%;
}
/* Widgets and Etc */
.widget_search div {
    margin: 0.6em 0;
}
#sidebar #s {
    margin-bottom: 2px;
    width: 180px;
}
/* Calendar */
#wp-calendar {
    margin: 0 0 1.2em 0;
    width: 185px;
    border: 1px solid #000;
    background: #1E674E;/*#4E5706;*/
    line-height: 1.2em;
    text-align: center;
    voice-family: "\"}\"";
    voice-family: inherit;
    width: 183px;
}
html>body #wp-calendar {
    width: 183px;
}
#wp-calendar caption {
    margin: 1.2em 0 0 0;
    padding: 0.4em 0;
    border-top: 1px solid #000;
    border-right: 1px solid #000;
    border-left: 1px solid #000;
/*    background: url(images/sidebarheader.gif) no-repeat 50% -2px;*/ /* This is what gave the calendar header its color */
    color: #141112;
    font-weight: bold;
}
#wp-calendar td {
    border: 0;
    border-collapse: collapse;
/*    background: url(images/sidebarheader.gif) no-repeat 100% 0;*/
}
#wp-calendar td a {
    display: block;
    width: 100%;
}
#wp-calendar td.pad {
    background: transparent;
}
#wp-calendar td#next, #wp-calendar td#prev {
    padding: 0.1em 2px;
    background: transparent;
}
#wp-calendar td#next a, #wp-calendar td#prev a {
    display: inline;
}
#wp-calendar td#next {
    text-align: right;
}
#wp-calendar td#prev {
    text-align: left;
}
/* Added by Zak Greant for language menu in header */
ul.compact {
    display: inline;
    list-style: none;
    padding: 0;
}
ul.compact * {
    display: inline;
}
ul.compact li:before {
    content: " | ";
}
ul.compact li:first-child:before {
    content: "";
}
/*  Theme Name: Appropedia's 13
Theme URI: http://www.appropedia.org/Appropedia%27s_13_theme_for_WordPress
Description: A fast-loading theme (lean code, low bandwidth) with a stylish, clean look. Two columns.
Version: 1.0
Author: Chris Watkins
Author URI: http://www.appropedia.org/User:Chriswaterguy

based on "Thirteen" by Becca Wei, http://beccary.com
*/
</pre>


The following comments (added during the early hacking) have been removed:

/* 
Optimized for low bandwidth. Some elements moved to end. CWG
--
Temporary notes (while editing the theme):
* Need to remove background gifs - will comment them out for now, but may be worth replacing with very lightweight gifs in suitable colors). Search for "background" and "gif"

Loband work:
* remove unnecessary commenting later. Blog on this as our "Loband Thirteen" theme, a contribution for the slow web.
 
Worked out:
* I think we want to replace sidebar.gif with our logo. I've changed it to logo.png
* The wrapper gif is the background just of the content. We want the whole blog background light or white.
* removing the sidebar.gif experimentally causes what's left of sidebar to disappear to bottom.
* #444444 is too dark gray for text links; #99bbbb grey-blue nice but too pale;
** bright blue-green #3DCE9C too light? so made it half as bright: #1E674E. Now doesn't stand out too much, but it's ok. use for visited links?
*** bright one still too weak, so make unvisited #1E674E; and visited a mix of this and light grey - ie average of #1E674E and #727A7A = #48 70.8 64 ~= #487064.  Difference not clear, so use more of a straight gray: #727A7A
*** so now #3DCE9C is only used for hover on headers.
** #sidebar a:visited sidebar visited is paler, duller, than other visited links. So: #B3D9D3 with halved intensity becomes #596C69. But this is much like the unvisited links, so #596C69 is used instead. #E5E6C2.  Hover background is made to one of the lighter grays, to be more readable.
** Same for footer, previously non-link text a super-pale #E5E6C2, changed to #596C69 and then to black #000 - as a non-link is greater contrast.
** sidebarheader.gif is a nice graduating color, left to right.
** will attempt to replace bullet.gif with a • - hasn't worked, so bullet points are just hanging.


Style questions:
* Do we want repeating gif in sidebar? behind sidebar content and/or below it?

Done so far:
* commented background gifs noticed no difference
* moved:
** theme info to end
* commented header (as test). Only removed very top image. Where's the other one?
* changed backgrounds:
** wrapper background #FFFFE3 to #eeffff - no noticable difference. Or is this just the
* text colors:
** after this code "#sidebar a:link, #footer a:link {"... I commented out old color #C79A65... and changed color to #000 (too dark) then to #445555 (still don't like it),
** changed #4E5706; to #99bbbb;/*#4E5706;*/  in several places. Only notices on search text box, calendar background.
* commented out divider.gif


*/
{{catneeded}}