{{OSNCon navbar}}

The schedule of the OSN Conference itself is:
:'''October 18-19, 2008'''
:'''8:30am for 9am start'''
:'''"official" finish 4pm, when we need to leave the building, but conversations will continue outdoors or at another location.''' (Dinner on Saturday may be semi-official, especially if there is a sponsor.)

Please arrive early
The schedule of related activities (after hours, eve-of-conference, etc), and events leading up to the conference, and the detailed agenda is still under development.

== Agenda ==
Proposed agenda:
;Each day will begin and end with a single gathering.
;The remainder of the day will be open for presentations in each of the rooms.


:''This section below needs rewriting. Move the sub-sections below to [[OSNCamp 2008/Presentations]]? Do some presentations related to [[OSN]] need special notice given here?''

=== OSN Workshops===
Bringing relevant parties together provides the opportunity to: 

# Discuss what "Open" means -- is it only text? pictures? ideas?  Intellectual property?  Patents?
# Identify existing initiatives, and learn from successes and failures. 
# Identify existing tools - Their advantages and disadvantages
# Perform a gap analysis and identify opportunities for collaboration -- NGOs, community based orgs (CBOs), individuals, academics, "repositories and collaboration sites", donors, governments, churches, for-profit entities offering DIY kits and AT, etc,.
# Identify a broader network of practitioners with experience in online collaboration
# Enlist support of additional parties to build the network and scale up impact.
# Establish short and long term goals for effectively implementing an Open Sustainability Network
# Determine means of quality control and quality assurance - potential rating dimensions, raters, accrediting test labs,

=== Workshop #1: Online Education ===
'''Goal:''' Develop a framework for online course hosting at the Open Sustainability Network. 

One of the goals of the [[Open Sustainability Network]] is to build a unified collection of relevant online tools and practices to help students and teachers build effective programs in [[appropriate technology]] and [[social entrepreneurship]].  Specifically, the OSN is focused on impacting the training of future innovators and managers who will need to effectively tackle a set of profound global challenges through the creation, commercialization and institutionalization of sustainable enterprise and clean technologies.  

=== Workshop #2: Collaborative Taxonomies ===
'''Goal:''' Develop a system of taxonomies to classify and share technologies, implementation efforts, projects, educational resources, impacts and community information. Define methods of collaboration.

=== Workshop #3: Online Publications ===
'''Goal:''' Define best practices in online publications. In particular this workshop will determine how to best navigate copyright and patent law and the best methods for encouraging [[open source appropriate technology]] in a range of contexts.

== Sunday ==
*'''3:00PM''' - we have arranged for a tour of the Doctors Without Borders [http://www.doctorswithoutborders.org/education/refugeecamp/home/ "A Refugee Camp in the Heart of the City"]  (Check the [http://www.doctorswithoutborders.org/education/refugeecamp/event/index.cfm?id=sanfrancisco San Francisco] page for more details.

Location: Little Marina Green Park (Marina Boulevard and Yacht Harbor Road; west end of Marina Green, east of Crissy Field). (8.0 mi, 15 mins drive, or est. [http://maps.google.com/maps?f=d&saddr=1600+Holloway+Ave,+San+Francisco,+CA+94132+(San+Francisco+State+University)&daddr=Scott+Street,+San+Francisco,+CA+94123+(Marina+Green+Park)&hl=en&geocode=FRiTPwIdtiez-CHctiqwUgTXNQ%3BFQzfQAIdw62z-CHI-aa-STBVUw&mra=cc&dirflg=r&sll=37.772072,-122.455673&sspn=0.166356,0.2211&ie=UTF8&z=12&start=0 38 minutes by the #28 bus, and foot].) 

If you are planning to drive from campus to the event, and are willing to carpool, check our [[OSNCon/carpool | carpool]] page.  This event will be running most of the previous week also (October 15 – 19, 2008
9:00am - 5:30 pm). ''Organized by David Reber.''

'''Comment/question''': We can presumably adjust the timing of the visit, as long as we get there by about 4 or 4:30? Some attendees have to return to Humboldt County on the Sunday evening, and ''may'' want to leave before this.

== See also ==
* [[Open Sustainability Network Conference 2008/presentations]] - a working list of planned presentations.

== Other progressive Events on the Weekend of Oct 18 ==
These are the events competing for your attention on the weekend of the 18th.
* Craigslist Foundation's Nonprofit Boot Camp 
* Bioneers
* Free Seminar "Go Solar" [http://sfbay.craigslist.org/sfc/eve/847421172.html]

== Items to schedule ==
* When agenda closes
* Press release date(s)
[[Category:OSNCamp]]