{{TOCright}}
'''Monday, July 3rd Lesson Plan'''

Name of Lesson: Pinwheels in the Garden.

===Goals:=== 

To teach the students how to make pinwheels to decorate the garden.

===Objectives:===  

*Follow instructions to create a pinwheel.
*Make a unique and original artistic design.
*Use scissors and art supplies appropriately.

===Materials:===  

Colored paper, markers, hole puncher, brads, and straws, a copy of the pinwheel worksheet (See link on appropedia).

===Teacher Set:=== 

Hoy vamos a aprender como hacer un rejileto.  Juliana y yo pensamos que seria divertido a decorar el Jardín con rejiletos. Quieren hacer eso? (“Today we are going to learn to make a pinwheel. Juliana and I thought that it would be fun to decorate the Garden with Pinwheels.  Does this sound fun to you?” 

===Activity: ===  

The students will receive a colored piece of construction paper each.  Before you start the activity you should cut the paper and punch the holes in them. The students will decorate the paper and fold it to make a pinwheel by putting a brad in the center hole and putting the brad through a hole in the top of the straw.  We used the hole puncher to make holes in the straws and this worked out great. Let the students put the pinwheel wherever they want in the garden.  

===Assessment:=== 

The students are assessed by following directions and have an end result of a pinwheel.  Every student made a beautiful pinwheel.

[[Category:Lesson plans]]
[[Category:Horticulture and gardening]]
[[Category:Parras 2006]]