== January 14, 2009 ==
The Humboldt Bay Center for Sustainable Living presents, “Building a Home Rain Catchment System” starting at 6:45 p.m. on Wednesday, January 14, 2009, at the Redwood Coast Energy Resource Center, 517 5th Street, in Eureka (between F &G).


The program is presented by Kaitlin Sopoci-Belknap.


In 2007, Ms. Sopoci-Belknap worked with HSU Environmental Engineering student Nicole Vincent (under the supervision of Professor Lonny Grafman) in order to install a rainwater catchment system at the home/office of Democracy Unlimited, located in Eureka. Rainwater collected from the system provides water for chickens and ducks, and also drip irrigates the vegetable garden, berries, fruit trees, and landscape of the residence/office.
The entire project is described in detail at Appropedia, the world's premiere website for collaborative solutions in sustainability, poverty reduction and [[appropriate development]]. The entry can be viewed at http://www.appropedia.org/M_Street_Eureka_rainwater_catchment


The original construction inadvertently violated Eureka zoning set back restrictions, and Ms. Sopoci-Belknap and Democracy Unlimited was required to seek a conditional use variance for the project. She will describe the entire process she went through, from designing and building the system, to seeking (and ultimately receiving) a variance. The system is now operational and fully legal, and Ms. Sopoci-Belknap hopes their experience can be helpful for others seeking to move towards sustainability in an urban context.
Kaitlin Sopoci-Belknap is the Executive Director of Democracy Unlimited of Humboldt County (www.duhc.org). She also serves on the Board of Directors of the Humboldt Bay Municipal Water District, where she was the first woman and youngest person ever elected to that office, and has served on the Housing Advisory Board for the City of Eureka. She is presently the Executive Director of Democracy Unlimited of Humboldt County (www.duhc.org).


This program is provided by the educational arm of the Humboldt Bay Center for Sustainable Living (HBCSL). HBCSL is a non-profit organization whose mission is to explore and demonstrate, through experiential living, a wide range of sustainable and ecologically sound technologies and ways of life. Its principal project is the development of the Humboldt Bay Eco-Hostel. More information on this project may be found at www.eco-hostel.org.

<small>''see http://www.northcoastjournal.com/calendar/events/building-home-rain-catchment-system/''</small>
{{catneeded}}