{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=HIV/AIDS
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=Surecheck assay.jpg
}}
==Problem being addressed==
Rapid diagnostic kits, which have emerged over the past few years as a result of advancing technology, help detect HIV infection quickly.

==Detailed description of the solution==
SURE CHECK® HIV 1 / 2, HIV 1/ 2 STAT-PAK® and HIV 1/ 2 STAT-PAK® Dipstick tests are easy-to-perform, single-use diagnostic tests for the rapid, visual detection of antibodies to HIV1 and HIV2.  All of these devices are produced by ChemBio Diagnostic Systems, Inc.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: ChemBio Diagnostic Systems Inc.
*Manufacturing: New York, USA

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
Due to its inexpensive price and wide distribution, it is available globally. It has been tested and referred to in WHO reports.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Delaney, Kevin P. et al. (2010). Evaluation of the Performance Characteristics of 6 Rapid HIV Antibody Tests. Oxford Journals. Medicine. Clinical Infectious Diseases Volume 52, Issue 2, pp. 257-263. 
Link available [http://cid.oxfordjournals.org/content/52/2/257.full here].

===Other internally generated reports===
A PDF of use and instructions is available [http://www.chembio.com/pdfs/6174%20HIV%20Sure%20Check%20EXP%20Prod%20Insert%20Rev%203.pdf here].

===Approval by regulatory bodies or standards boards===
This device received FDA approval in May 2006.  Link available [http://www.fda.gov/BiologicsBloodVaccines/BloodBloodProducts/ApprovedProducts/PremarketApprovalsPMAs/ucm091240.htm here].