{{BRIDGE_navbar}}

== Jan 2009 Trip ==
[[BRIDGE/Trip2| This page]] Has the information on our plans for Jan 2009 including information for people planning to come.

== Aug 2008 Trip ==
[[BRIDGE/trip1| This page]] Has the travel log and initial plans for the first trip that we took in August 2008.  You can see photos from that trip [http://picasaweb.google.com/bridge.nica/Aug2008# here].

== Background Materials ==
[http://userwww.sfsu.edu/~dreber/Morrito_Information.pdf this PDF] has some background information on Morrito

[[Media:Assistance_Project_for_Morrito.pdf|This pdf]] also has descriptions for several projects available.

== Fiscal Sponsorship ==
We are actively looking for a 501 c3 organization to fiscally sponsor us.

== Open Officer Positions ==
We are hoping to expand the officer ranks so we will be adding job positions here.  

*Special Event Coordinator - Is in charge of facilitating monthly members meetings which will include speakers and movies.

:* "Affluenza" has been a recommended movie

:* "The New Heroes" has also been brought to our attention

*Recruiter - In charge of tabling schedule and creating events which increase interest in BRIDGE Nicaragua.

*Local Project Coordinator - this person will arrange local projects.

:*Habitat for Humanity

:*[http://www.onebrick.org/calendar.asp Onebrick.org]

*Fundraiser - In charge of facilitating fund raising events

== One time Projects ==
This is a list of projects that need to get done but don't necessarily need a position made for them.

* Hosting a banquet to recognize one or two outstanding Professors at our university.  This is a politically tricky process as feelings can be hurt and it is difficult to recognize teachers for excellence as opposed to just popularity.