{{HSU Chiapas header}}
{{TOCright}}

==What to bring==
Here is an incomplete list of items to pack for the [[HSU Chiapas]] Program.

# travel umbrella, light 
# swimsuit 
# beach towel 
# Work gloves
# Work clothes
# lightweight raincoat (it can rain a lot in San Cristobal)
# Waterproof shoes 
# antibacterial tissues 
# sunscreen 
# cotton socks 
# comfortable clothes for heat 
# very comfortable walking shoes 
# formal summer outfit (for formal occasions)
# sunglasses
# hat for the sun
# backpack 
# moneybelt (optional - serves to bring some money and save things for personal use) 
# sandals (optional) 
# a small flashlight (optional) 
# pocket money ($300 USD)  [ATM card is safer] 
# a small gift for your family (e.g. something from Humboldt) 
# a dictionary (English / Spanish etc.) 
# pens, pencil, eraser, notebook 
# a calculator
# mosquito repellent (There are not many mosquitoes in San Cristobal, but may be needed in case of travel to Palenque)
# a shirt that read: "Humboldt State University” (optional)
# Memory Stick for use with computer. 
# A jacket (it can be cold in the morning and evening) 
# Books to donate to the library - These should be on Appropriate Technology, Science, the Environment, Social Justice, etc... and in English or Spanish.
# Any small equipment you would like to use/donate (e.g. hammer, multimeter, etc.)

===Optional: At Your Own Risk=== 
# Camera (This will help with assignments.  Make sure to attend the cultural orientation before taking photos, as photo taking is prohibited in many ares, such as churches.)
# Laptop Computer (This will help a lot with assignments.  The school facilities have wifi, but no computers.  Alternatively you can use cybercafes.) 
# Music player 
# Musical Instruments 

===Additional notes=== 
# In San Cristobal, Chiapas there are well stocked drug stores, but it is recommended to bring creams, sunscreen, and deodorant of your choice. 
# In San Cristobal, Chiapas it can be cold in the morning and evening, so bring a sweater and jacket.

==Money==
The exchange rate as of April 21st, 2010 is about 12 pesos per dollar.  See http://www.google.com/search?q=dollars+in+pesos for more current information.

[[Category:HSU Chiapas Program]]