==First meeting: Thursday 15th March 2007==

Meeting at the Fair Trade Coffee Company, 33 Glebe Point Rd, Glebe, 6pm. Please RSVP. 

'''What's happening this week''': John Kelly, former US Ambassador to Lebanon, is speaking/discussing from 7:30, finishing at 8:30 or 9. The Fair Trade Coffee people had already organised this, but it sounded interesting. The rest of the evening we can talk about whatever we like. (I was going to say that if you try to get us talking about BigBrother or Paris Hilton we may chase you down the street with pitchforks, but that's not quite true).

We'll see how this works, and next time we may or may not repeat this format. 

'''Venue''': The [http://www.fairtradecoffeecompany.com.au/ Fair Trade Coffee Company], 33 Glebe Point Rd, Glebe (not far from Broadway). No, you don't have to be a coffee lover - they have tea, chocolate and food, too. Main meals are $10 (crepe) to $13 (Colombian Arepas). 

'''Time''': 6 pm, Thursday 15th March. They prefer us to all order by 6:30 if possible, so that we've had dinner and there's not too much moving of plates etc during the discussion period from 7:30 - but it's reasonably flexible. 

'''RSVP''' Contact [[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] a.k.a. Chris Watkins, via email, or by calling 0400 220 700. We'd like to have an idea of numbers, so please RSVP if possible.

==Next meeting: Thursday 19th April 2007==

Our second meeting is again in Glebe, starting at (venue to be announced) and then having coffee/tea/cake at the Fair Trade Coffee Company, 33 Glebe Point Rd, Glebe, 6pm. Please RSVP if possible. 

'''What's happening this week''': Just conversation. And food. The idea of these dinners is to meet with other people who are interested in talking about political, social, economic issues etc. Think of a topic you want to discuss... or just come and go with the flow. (Things I'm thinking about include: the roles of political and non-political activism; the need for the "Left" to take economics seriously; and the implications of the new interactive internet technologies a.k.a. Web 2.0. Those are just options for discussion. --[[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] &middot; <small>[[User talk:Chriswaterguy|talk]]</small>)

'''Venue''': 
1. Dinner at '''More's Cafe''' - Turkish food, with pide pizza's, great falafels, dips, and frittatas. Vegetarians catered for. 107 Glebe Point Rd, Glebe.

2. Coffee/tea/cake: The [http://www.fairtradecoffeecompany.com.au/ Fair Trade Coffee Company], 33 Glebe Point Rd, Glebe (not far from Broadway). No, you don't have to be a coffee lover - they have tea, chocolate and food, too.  

'''Time''': 6:30 pm, Thursday 19th April. 

'''RSVP''' Contact [[User:Chriswaterguy|Chriswaterguy]] a.k.a. Chris Watkins, via email, or by calling 8756 5447. (Note, I've lost my mobile phone, but I'll try to borrow a handset for Thursday - my number is 0400 220 700). We'd like to have an idea who to look out for, so please RSVP if possible.

==The following meeting: Thursday May 17th==
''Note this ended up merging with [http://plus20.wordpress.com/ Beers Without Borders] for this evening.''
'''Venue''': The [http://www.fairtradecoffeecompany.com.au/ Fair Trade Coffee Company], 33 Glebe Point Rd, Glebe (not far from Broadway). In the back section. No, you don't have to be a coffee lover - they have tea, chocolate and food, too. Main meals are approximately $10 (crepe) to $13 (Colombian Arepas).

[[Category:Events]]