==Potential Projects==
These are the countries that our travel intern will be in for 2010.  If you know of a potential partner, please click edit next to the state and add the organization to the list.  Don't worry about formatting.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Dates (2010)
! State
! Groups
! Projects
|-
!August 15-September 1
| [[Oaxaca]]
| [[UABJO]] 
| 
*[[UABJO Demonstration Wetland Wastewater Treatment, Reclamation, and Outreach]]
*[[Oaxaca Water Quality Forum]]
|-
! September 2 - September 13
| [[Oaxaca]]
| [[Institute of Nature and Society of Oaxaca]]<br /> [[Permaculture Demonstration Center in San Andres Huayapam]]<br />
| 
*[[Terraces and Ditches at Pedregal]]
*[[Ecological dry toilets at Pedregal]]
*[[Micro filter dams at Pedregal]]
*[[Rainwater catchment at Pedregal]]
*[[Reforestation at Pedregal]]
*[[Ceiling insulation out of recycled Tetra pack at Pedregal| Ceiling insulation out of recycled Tetra pack]]
|-
! September 10- September 16
| [[Mexico City]]
| [[Isla Urbana]]
| 
*[[Rainwater catchment at Isla Urbana]]
|-
! September 16- September 22
| [[Mexico City]]
| [[Sembradores Urbanos]]
| 
*[[Hydroponic Vertical Garden at Sembradores Urbanos]]
*[[Raised Beds at Sembradores Urbanos]]
*[[Worm bin at Sembradores Urbanos]]
*[[Mini urban greenhouse for seed germination at Sembradores Urbanos | Mini urban greenhouse for seed germination]]
*[[Polyculture Planting at Sembradores Urbanos]]
|-
! September 22 to end of September25
| [[Mexico City]]
| [[Semillero Romita]]
| 
*[[Merkaba Trueke Barter Exchange at Semillero Romita]]
|-
! September 25 to October beginning
| [[Mexico City]]
| [[International Renewable Resources Institute-Mexico]]
| 
*[[Biodigester Effluent Testing with IRRI]] 
*[[Biodigester Effluent Water Quality Testing with IRRI]] 
|-
! October beginning - October 10th
| [[Mexico City]]
| [[Laboratorio de Ajusco de Tecnologia Alternativa]]
| 
*[[Rainwater quality testing with Isla Urbana]] <br /> 
*[[Parameters for rainwater quality testing at Isla Urbana and the Ajusco Lab]]<br />
*[[Testing synthesized components of rainwater harvesting systems with Isla Urbana]]<br />
*[[Testing water quality, surveying water access, and mapping high risk areas in Mexico City with Isla Urbana]]

|-
! October 10th - October 20th
| [[Mexico City]]
| [[International Renewable Resources Institute-Mexico]]
| 
*[[Biodigester follow up and maintenance with IRRI]]<br />
*[[Biodigester Effluent Fertilizer Quality Testing with IRRI]]
*[[Process for testing biodigester effluent fertilizer quality in lab with IRRI]]
*[[Biodigester effluent fertilizer quality parameters for testing with IRRI]]
|-
|}

==Invitation to Add Your Organization/Community/Project to this list==
Hi,

Your organization or community is doing amazing work.  Other communities could learn a lot from what you are doing, yet you are too busy doing great work to have time to document your efforts.  Appropedia has our first travel intern that wants to come document your best projects/engagements.

===Your duties===
* Provide projects or engagements for our intern to document
* Provide time to answer some of the intern's questions about what makes your project so impactful
* Make sure the intern has a safe place to stay and eat (covering her food and lodging is optional, but greatly appreciated)

===The intern's duties===
* Document the best projects and engagements of your organization or community in a short, accurate, manner.
* Help share your work with others via Appropedia and social media channels.
* Be a professional and valuable presence at your site for 1 day to 1 week.

This year the intern is looking to spend June through July in South America and August through September in Central America.  If your community or organization has a project for us to document (as part of this or another future internship), and a place for her to stay during the days it will take to document those projects, please contact us at travelintern@appropedia.org.

Thank you,

[[Category:Travel internships]]