== Constitution ==
Constitution of Building Resources in International Development for Global Equality 
===Article I===
Name of Organization: Building Resources in International Development for Global Equality (BRIDGE)
===Article II===
Statement of Purpose: The purpose of BRIDGE is to build infrastructure and organizational capacity in developing countries to promote social justice.
===Article III===
Membership is flexible and informal.  We collaborate in person and via the web to accomplish our organization's objectives as defined by Article II.  If you help BRIDGE,  you are a member.
===Article IV===
Officers shall be elected by consensus among the existing officers and an individuals past contributions to BRIDGE projects shall be the chief guide to who is elected.  Should consensus be impossible the position is eliminated.
===Article V===
This constitution may be changed at any time by a consensus among the officers in attendance

== By-Laws ==
===Article I===
Dues: Statement about collection and amount.
===Article II===
The following positions and duties are hereby established:
*President: Conduct BRIDGE meetings, and ensure that club business runs smoothly.
*Vice President: Conduct BRIDGE in the absence of the President.
*Treasurer: handle BRIDGE finances
*Secretary: make records of club meetings and post to the wiki.
*Web Master: make all necessary changes to HTML home page of BRIDGE.
*Special event coordinator: create and manage BRIDGE special events.
*Conference lead:  Organize yearly conference.
*Conference second: Assist in organization of yearly conference.
*Recruiter: In charge of BRIDGE tabling and recruitment.
*Fundraiser: work with the Treasurer to give him/her something to do.
*Faculty Advisor:  Guide BRIDGE officers and members.
====Section 2====
Vacancies shall be filled at the next club meeting by consensus of the officers in attendance.
====Section 4====
Recall of officers shall occur by consensus of the officers in attendance minus one.

===Article III===
Elections: Elections shall occur through consensus at an officers meeting during the first week of the semester.
===Article IV===
Quorum: at least two officers must be in attendance to conduct club business.
===Article V===
Parliamentary Authority: Robert’s Rules of Order
===Article VI===
These bylaws may be changed at any time by a consensus among the officers in attendance.

[[Category:BRIDGE]]