{{TOCright}}

== Working Organization Invitation Draft ==
Your work indicates that, like me, you believe strongly that sustainable solutions should be shared whenever possible.  We are gathering together a large community of like-minded groups and people, called the Open Sustainability Network (OSN), to work on overcoming barriers to openness and collaboration.  Our first conference will be at San Francisco State University on October, 18th-19th and admission is free.   Your support for OSN can range from simply joining and offering valuable passive support (granting permission to use your name and logo in our list of supporting members) to very active support (OSNCamp attendance and promotion of OSN via blogs and newsletters).  To promote OSNCamp attendance, we will enable virtual attendance for those who can't be physically present.

I'd love it if you could attend OSNCamp 2008 in person or virtually.  Join us as we work together to increase openness and collaboration to accelerate our respective missions!

:For more information: http://opensustainabilitynetwork.org
:To register for OSNCamp 2008 see: http://osncon.eventbrite.com
:To see the OSN member pledge: http://www.appropedia.org/OSN_member_pledge
:To see the current member list: http://www.appropedia.org/OSN_members
Note: you can pledge without attending, or attend without pledging.

Please feel free to forward this to like-minded people and organizations. Contact me with any questions.  Thank you for doing the kind of work you do!

== Working Organization Staff Invitation Draft ==
:Dear ___________ staff,
:Your work at ____________ indicates that you believe in sustainable solutions and maybe are concerned about how these solutions can be best shared and built upon.  We are gathering together a large community, the Open Sustainability Network (OSN), to work on overcoming barriers to openness and collaboration. The first OSN conference will be at San Francisco State University on October 18th-19th, 2008 and admission is free (or $20, your choice).    

:You are invited. 

:Join us for the first Open Sustainability Network unconference as we explore free content and [[knowledge sharing]] in sustainability, [[international development]], appropriate technology and solutions to poverty. 

:More information: http://opensustainabilitynetwork.org/ 
:Registration: http://osncon.eventbrite.com/ 

:Please contact me with any questions. 
:Thank you, 
:Lonny

== Somewhat More Personal Invitation Draft ==
:Dear _____,

:Your work with _____ and in life highlights your belief in sharing and building upon sustainable solutions.  We are gathering together a large community, the Open Sustainability Network (OSN), to work on overcoming barriers to openness and collaboration. The first OSN conference will be at San Francisco State University on October 18th-19th, 2008 and admission is free (or $20, your choice).

:You are invited.

:Join us for the first Open Sustainability Network unconference as we explore free content and knowledge sharing in sustainability, international development, appropriate technology and solutions to poverty.

:More information: http://opensustainabilitynetwork.org/
:Registration: http://osncon.eventbrite.com/

:Please contact me with any questions.

:Thank you,
:Lonny

== Already invited ==
Now that the list is getting crowded with folks already invited, I'm splitting it up.  Check the "already invited" section before adding to the "to invite" section.
Note: trying to keep roughly alphabetized for easy scanning...

* AIDG ([[CurtB]] asked Cat of AIDG, and received verbal support and logo.  Still need MOU formality.)
* Appropedia Facebook group --[[User:Lonny|Lonny]] 00:55, 3 September 2008 (PDT)
* Amy Smith --[[User:Lonny|Lonny]] 17:14, 8 September 2008 (PDT)
* http://arttec.com (sent invite to Guy Marsden: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 12:35, 5 October 2008 (PDT))
* Care2 (Sent an invitation to Randy Paynter, CEO: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 21:15, 14 September 2008 (PDT))
* Catalytic Communities (Michael Maranda... already signed up, not sure if formally invited: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 21:32, 14 September 2008 (PDT)) formally invited --[[User:J.M.Pearce|Joshua]] 01:38, 17 September 2008 (PDT)
* Clarence Foundation (sent to Marc Manashil, ED: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 21:15, 14 September 2008 (PDT))
* [http://creativemachines.com Creative Machines] (Sent invite to Tad Beckwith: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 12:35, 5 October 2008 (PDT))
* Demotech (Reinder : [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 10:30, 19 September 2008 (PDT))
* D-Labs/MIT? (Smari McCarthy : [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 10:30, 19 September 2008 (PDT))
* Doctors Without Borders - {{user|David.reber}} has started a dialogue with DWB who also happens to be having an event in San Francisco on the same weekend
**Doctors Without Borders won't be attending but we have reserved a spot for 40 people to get a tour of their camp Sunday at 3pm --[[User:David.reber|David.reber]] 13:48, 28 August 2008 (PDT)
* Ecopalooza (submitted event - web site had problems so I emailed them about the event [[User:Rachelmmurray]] 17 October 2008 (PDT)
* Ekopedia (Olivier Chaput - [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 10:30, 19 September 2008 (PDT))
* Enabling Innovation --[[User:J.M.Pearce|Joshua]] 01:38, 17 September 2008 (PDT)
* [http://www.eventful.com Eventful] 2.0 event site - also did Upcoming at Yahoo [[User:Rachelmmurray]],Oct. 17/08
* Fab Labs ([[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] chatted with Smari and sent invite to him...'''But it bounced!'''.  [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 17:48, 14 September 2008 (PDT))
* [http://www.fsdinternational.org/ Foundation for sustainable development] has been invited --[[User:David.reber|David.reber]] 19:18, 28 August 2008 (PDT)
* http://ferrocement.com (Sent invite to Garrett Connelly: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 12:27, 5 October 2008 (PDT))
* [[Full Belly Project]] --[[User:Lonny|Lonny]] 02:54, 10 September 2008 (PDT) (Oops, I did too: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 17:48, 14 September 2008 (PDT))
* [http://www.greenbiz.com GreenBiz.com] [[User:Rachel]] 17 October 2008 (PDT)
* Greenlivingpedia.org (Peter Campbell: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 10:30, 19 September 2008 (PDT))
* Influential bloggers
** Katie Kurtz (Lonny invited - [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 10:30, 19 September 2008 (PDT))
** Gil Friend (Lonny invited - [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 10:30, 19 September 2008 (PDT))
** [http://thesietch.org/ thesietch.org] (Boston based) --[[User:Lonny|Lonny]] 02:54, 10 September 2008 (PDT)
** Marguerite Manteau Rao (sent invite: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 11:31, 19 September 2008 (PDT))
* [http://www.indybay.org/calendar/?page_id=12  Bay area Indy Media] [[User:Rachelmmurray]],Oct. 17/08
* Inveneo (Sent an invite to Kristin Peterson: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 20:18, 14 September 2008 (PDT))
* IRN (Sent invite to Elizabeth Brink: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 11:31, 19 September 2008 (PDT))
* Kickstart (Invited Martin Fisher: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 11:31, 19 September 2008 (PDT))
* Kiva --[[User:J.M.Pearce|Joshua]] 01:38, 17 September 2008 (PDT)
* LeapingStone (Curt B, on the board at LeapingStone, will be there: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 21:15, 14 September 2008 (PDT))
** [[OAN]] ([[Architecture for Humanity]], [[CurtB]] has contacted Kate at AFH and Ben will likely attend.  Need to formalize with MOU.)
* Open Source Ecology (Marcin has already signed up... not sure who invited them: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 17:52, 14 September 2008 (PDT))
* The Lighting Project (Sent a note to Sailesh Rao, Exec Director: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 21:15, 14 September 2008 (PDT))
* NCIIA.org (Sent an invitation to Jennifer Keller Jackson: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 12:57, 5 October 2008 (PDT))
* [http://www.netsquared.org NetSquared's Community Blog]] [[User:Rachelmmurray]],Oct. 17/08
* [http://p2pfoundation.net/ p2pfoundation.net] (sent a note to Michel Bauwens: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 21:15, 14 September 2008 (PDT))
* [http://www.paloaltoonline.com/sopecal/place_listing_process.php  Palo Alto Online] (posted in events listing page - may not make it in because not enough notice [[User:Rachelmmurrayl]], Oct. 17/08
* Paul Polak --[[User:Lonny|Lonny]] 00:55, 3 September 2008 (PDT)
* [http://www.roomtoread.org/ Room to Read] - I have invited them --[[User:David.reber|David.reber]] 19:04, 28 August 2008 (PDT)
* Social Edge - invited by [[User:David.reber|David.reber]] 18:16, 26 August 2008 (PDT)
* SolarCooking.Wikia (Invited Pat McArdle and Tom Sponheim: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 11:31, 19 September 2008 (PDT))
* Technology for the Poor (Sent invite to Job Ebenezer: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 11:31, 19 September 2008 (PDT))
* TipThePlanet (Sent invite to Tom Savage, part of "bulk invite":[[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 11:31, 19 September 2008 (PDT))
* [http://www.tribe.net Tribe][[User:Rachelmmurray]],Oct. 17/08
* [[Village Earth]] (Sent a note to Mark Horowitz, Dave Bartecchi and Maury Albertson: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 20:18, 14 September 2008 (PDT)  Replies back from Mark and Dave that they cannot attend physically, interested in virtual, and they sign on as members.)
* Wikia (Angie: Chris and I - [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 10:30, 19 September 2008 (PDT))
* http://www.wish4humanity.org/ (Sent invite to Crawford "Al" Irvine: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 12:35, 5 October 2008 (PDT))

== To Invite ==
Check the "already invited" section before adding to the "to invite" section.
'''After you have contacted the following - please tag it with a signature.'''  Occasionally we'll move names to the "already invited" section above.

We want representatives from many groups that are inspiring or who might get inspired about open sustainability. It's particularly important to get word out to folks overseas for whom travel is big factor. Some ideas include:
* AIDG Facebook group 
* [[Open design]] people (See [[Open Design Collaboration]])
* http://apptechdesign.org/
* Appropedia contributors (of course!)
* [[EWB]], [[ESW]], esp USA & Canada
** EWB-USA (Dr Amadei, who Zubaida previously talked to about this: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 11:31, 19 September 2008 (PDT))
* WiserEarth (posted as an event at WiserEarth, but did not invite the org itself yet: [[User:Curtbeckmann|CurtB]] 21:47, 14 September 2008 (PDT))
* Rocky Mountain Institute
* "[[Majority world]]" orgs and people - very important to have
representation from such places.
** Latin American orgs and people - is there a possibility of
sponsored travel & billeting?
** Foreign students, especially in relevant disciplines.
** Some, e.g. Asian Appropedians, could be represented by others (does Mel want to do a presentation on the [[Home biogas system (Philippine BioDigesters)]]? Chris on [[GEM mosquito control]]?)
* influential green bloggers, e.g.:
** WorldChanging
** Little Devices that Could (Boston-based)
* Practical Action
* Agroinnovations, Frank
* Cascade Climate Network
* [[IDDS]] (Lonny sent an invite to Amy Smith already... Who else should we include?)
* IPIDAT
* Akvo.org
* American Rivers
* Errsons
* Howtopedia
* SD Wiki
* Student Sustainability Initiative, Oregon State University
* [http://xpress.sfsu.edu/ Xpress] - The SFSU campus newspaper
* SFSU student orgs
* SFBC
* Bikes on Board Caltrain
* Ecostudents
* Shatz Energy Research Center
* Humboldt Bay Center for Sustainable Living
* [[CCAT]]
* Humboldt Coalition
* See [[Organizations]] for more

This list is not meant to be comprehensive (it could go on forever).(Please forgive us if we miss your name or your group...this list is
being developed ad hoc and subject to human error, so please don't read any intention into our omissions or the sequence!  Thanks, and
particular thanks to Olivier Chaput for beginning this list.)

What about local Bay Area sustainability organizations like [http://www.acterra.org/about/index.html Acterra] (in Palo Alto) and [http://www.thefosl.org/ Foundation of Sustainable Living] (in Santa Cruz). Doesn't look like anyone's contacted them - should I?  Also what about any local eco calendars like on [http://www.acterra.org/calendar/other.html Acterra's] site? I saw something on Upcoming but not sure what other 2.0 event places have been done. ~~ Rachel [[User:Rachel]]

== See also ==
*[[OpenSustainabilityCamp 2008/Facebook invite]]

[[Category:OSNCamp]]