{{TOCright}}
This is a page for conveying homework assignments for [[PSC110 Introduction to Renewable Energy]].

==Week 1==
===Day 1===
Orientation

===Day 2===
Topics covered: Introductions, Syllabus design, What is energy, types of RE
*Find and record a photo and location of an example RE from Spain 
*Bring two other types/examples of RE from reading on Appropedia
*Find a credible number for the back-of-the-envelope equation from class

===Day 3===
Topics covered: Energy and power, units, significant figures, powers of 10, conversions 
*Make a userpage on Appropedia
*Find energy portfolio information for Spain
*Convert 122x10<sup>12</sup> kWh/yr to a rate of energy use in quads/yr
*Photo, video or description of 1 N and .1kWh (make it physical)
*Read [[Power and energy basics]]
*Do sig fig tutorial (optional)

===Day 4===
Topics covered: Microhydro background, measuring stride and head
*Calculate max power from the creek

===Day 5===
Topics covered: Microhydro calculations
*Calculate net power from the creek using 3inch pipe
*Find and record a photo and location of another example RE from Spain 
*Read [[Microhydro]] and follow some of the links
**Ignore the difference between 5310 and 5302.  We will be using 5310 gal*ft/(min*kW)
*Bring two more other types/examples of RE from reading on Appropedia

==Week 2==
===Day 1===
Topics covered: Solar basics

*Finish estimate
*Find US and Spain average daily household electric use
*Explore research topics, come with a research plan for tomorrow

===Day 2===
Topics covered: More solar details, Solar in Spain and solar thermal electric

*Start research project. 1st Final Draft due Monday.

====Excel====
Complete the following two tutorials (without actually printing):
*http://www.vertex42.com/Excel2007/excel-basics-part1.htm 
**Note that the Merge and Center instruction should say A1:D1 not A1:A4</small>
**Print and save as PDF (if you are not on campus and are using a PC, you can download and install http://cutepdf.com to be able to print as a pdf).
*http://spreadsheets.about.com/od/excelcharts/ss/pie_chart_9.htm
**Print and save as PDF
**Email me your completed excel tutorials as zipped PDFs.
***To zip your file:
***# Explore to the folder where your saved your PDFs
***# Select both PDFs
***# Right click and select Send to
***# Select "Compressed (zipped) Folder"

Criteria:
* Fantastic - two pdfs zipped together that each look just like the link tutorial results.
* More than satisfactory - xls instead of pdf and looks exactly like the tutorial results OR pdf and looks mostly like the tutorial results.
* Satisfactory - xls instead of pdf and looks exactly like the tutorial results AND pdf and looks mostly like the tutorial results. Not zipped.
* Less than satisfactory - an attempt that looks like excel and a chart.
* Not satisfactory - an attempt that does not look like the results of using a spreadsheet program.
* Zero - not submitted.

===Day 3===
Topics covered: Global consumption sources, past, present and future

* Energy in 1 cubic foot of natural gas,
* Cheat sheet

===Day 4===
Topics covered: Biodigestors (with Alex Eaton from IRRI)



===Day 5===
Topics covered: Combustion and midterm
* Finish research paper and post to Appropedia

==Week 3==
===Day 1===
Topics Covered: Andrew Lamb from Engineers Without Borders UK discusses many of the RE projects that EWB UK works on.  

*Make comments and suggestions on another student's page (as described in class) - find the pages at [[PSC110 Introduction to Renewable Energy]].
**Kalewa - [[Dye-sensitized solar cell]]
**Phillip - [[Solar power tower]]
**Shelby - [[Solar power tower]]
*Start group project.  Check out http://bubbl.us (online) or google freemind.

===Day 2===
Topics Covered: Wind.

===Day 3===
Topics Covered: Wind.

===Day 4===
Topics covered: Synthesis

===Day 5===
Topics covered: Presentation of final quiz, final research paper, group project result and conclusions.

[[Category:PSC110 Introduction to Renewable Energy]]