{{Medical Device
|Health Topic=Waterborne diseases 
|Classification=Diagnosis
|Scope=Commercialized
|Location=Africa, Asia, South America
|Image=RIDAQUICK.jpg
}}
<!-- Please make sure to use the format provided below for consistency between all devices. -->
==Problem being addressed==
Diarrhea is a leading cause of global child mortality and morbidity, with most cases resulting from contaminated food and water sources.  There is a need for inexpensive, quick detection of the pathogens and bacteria that cause diarrheal diseases so that patients can be treated properly and quickly.

==Detailed description of the solution==
RIDA QUICK Combi test is a dipstick test used to determine the presence of rotaviruses and/or adenoviruses in stool samples.  One dips the strip in a minimally processed stool sample.  The strip, which contains a blue and/or red stripe indicator, produces results with high specificity and accuracy within five minutes.

==Designed by==
*Designed by: Institute of Tropical Medicine and International Health, Charite, University of Medicine, Berlin, Germany
*Manufacturer: R-Biopharm AG
*Manufacturer location: Darmstadt, Germany. Distributors are available worldwide.

==When and where it was tested/implemented ==
This device was tested at the Bulpeila Health Center in Tamale, Northern Ghana.

==References==
===Peer-reviewed publication===
Weitzel, Thomas, et al. (2007). Field Evaluation of a Rota- and Adenovirus Immunochromatographic Assay Using Stool Samples from Children with Acute Diarrhea in Ghana. Journal of Clinical Microbiology.  45(8), 2695-2697.

===Internally generated reports===
R-Biopharm. (2011) RIDA®QUICK Rotavirus/Adenovirus Combi (dipsticks). Link available [http://www.r-biopharm.com/profile.php?new_language=english here].

===IP and copyright===
RIDA QUICK Rotavirus/Adenovirus Combi is a registered trademark, but the reviewer could not find a copyright for the technology itself.