The following is a draft press release for the [[Humboldt Bay Center for Sustainable Living]] and its main project the Humboldt Bay Eco Hostel.  

===Title===
New Eco-Hostel Designs and Models Unveiled

===Summary===
After receiving an important Exclusive Right To Negotiate for three acres on the picturesque Humboldt Bay of Northern California, The Humboldt Bay Center for Sustainable Living unveils preliminary site designs.  The innovative [[green design]] for the main lodge was created by Julian Berg and Joyce Plath in collaboration with world-renowned architect Sim Van Der Ryn.  Through a service learning engagement, Humboldt State University engineering students were tapped to propose experimental eco-cottage designs for six satellite units.

===Body===
Eureka, CA (PRCompany) December 5, 2007 -- After receiving an Exclusive Right to Negotiate on three acres of the City’s waterfront, The Humboldt Bay Center for Sustainable Living (HBCSL) is hosting a public unveiling of site and building designs for the waterfront Eco-Hostel from 1:00 to 2:00 PM on Wednesday, December 12, 2007. This event features a new site plan and six models of cottages designed and constructed by Engineering 215—Introduction to Design students from Humboldt State University (HSU) as part of a local Service Learning ("education in action") partnership. 

The site design was created by Julian Berg and Joyce Plath in collaboration with world-renowned architect Sim Van Der Ryn. It calls for a 7500 square foot central hostel building, three acres of gardens and educational displays, and small cottages that feature the most experimental [[green building]] strategies. HSU engineering students were tapped to propose the cottage designs. Six student teams designed and constructed scaled models of hostel cottages using materials such as papercrete, aerated concrete, structural concrete insulated panels (SCIPs) and a modern interpretation of a traditional Yurok plank house. Each student effort incorporates cutting edge thinking about green design. 

"The quality of the students’ research is remarkable." said HBCSL’s President, Sean Armstrong. "We asked them to create designs that were both provocative and practical, and they delivered like professionals." 

In the course of researching green design students visited a wood sided house that had been sealed and stained a nutty brown with fryer grease, examined a shed made of papercrete blocks (shredded phone books combined with cement), and consulted with elders of the Yurok tribe on how to redesign the traditional plank house as an above ground residence. Environmental Engineering instructor Lonny Grafman provided design guidelines, feedback and expertise to his engineering students. Representatives of the HBCSL’s Board set up the design criteria and connected the students with local builders and innovative homeowners. 

The public is invited to the official unveiling, awards ceremony and viewing of these displays on Wednesday, December 12th, 2007 from 1:00 to 2:00 PM at the Adorni Center, 1011 W. Waterfront Drive at the end of L St in Eureka, California. 

<nowiki>###</nowiki>

===Keywords===
green, eco, architecture, service learning, hostel, environment, hospitality

===Industry===
Architecture

[[Category:HBCSL]]