{{Tocright}}
Click edit, then copy and paste the following into your own Projectpage/OM. Adapt the content to your own. Keep the section titles and probably the very first sentence the same (except for actual project name). Also <nowiki><!--</nowiki> are hidden comments that we should leave in to inform future editors.

This is the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) manual for [[CCAT project name]]. Please refer to it and keep it up to date with any O&M changes.

== Operation ==
This is how to operate. It should have a brief introduction and very useful images with labels. Also it may work best for your project to use the step by step how to template {{Tl|How to}}. See [[#Troubleshooting]] for an example.

== Maintenance ==
Introduce this maintenance section.

=== Schedule ===
This is when to maintain what. 
<!-- Please keep the format the same as it populates the kiosk in CCAT. -->

;Daily
*A daily task
*A daily task

;Weekly
*a weekly task
*a weekly task

;Monthly
*a monthly task
*a monthly task

;Yearly
*a yearly task
*a yearly task

;Every __ years
*task
*task

=== Instructions ===
This is how to maintain. The step by step how to template {{Tl|How to}} is most likely best for this part. 

{{How to
 |title=How to Do Something
 |File:Bpack bike trailer - demo 1.jpg |Backpack frame bike trailer |1 |Do something.
 |File:Aleiha dish.jpg |Aleiha's parabolic solar cooker |2 |Do something really complicated but made simple, etc.
}}

== Troubleshooting ==
This is only how to troubleshoot basic operation. For complex issues, the solution might just say contact ________. It should be a table in this format:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Problem
! Suggestion
|-
| Example issue
| Example solution or suggestion
|-
| Does not turn on
| Make sure it is plugged in
|-
| Another issue
| Et cetera 
|}


== Suggestions for future changes ==
This is where to lay out suggestions for how to make the project function better in the future. 

<!-- Add in any other appropriate categories such as [[Category:Photovoltaics]] -->
[[Category:Engr535 Development Technology]]
[[Category:CCAT active project]]