This page is for information useful to all [[HSU Chiapas]] participants. 

== Useful Links  ==

*This is a website that has weather and climate data for San Cristobal. 
**http://www.tutiempo.net/en/Climate/SN_CRISTOBAL_LAS_C/05-2010/768450.htm 
*This website contains a comprehensive pdf document on micro hydro power 
**http://canmetenergy-canmetenergie.nrcan-rncan.gc.ca/fichier.php/codectec/En/ISBN066239914/Intro_MicroHydro_ENG.pdf 
*This link provides a pdf document on rainwater catchment and systems. 
**[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=9&ved=0CEUQFjAI&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.twdb.state.tx.us%2Fpublications%2Freports%2Frainwaterharvestingmanual_3rdedition.pdf&ei=MRRNTKbWLZKgsQP5pM1I&usg=AFQjCNGYG-vYfrW1HJKCnH7fQzE-cmp7hw&sig2=DZF160LHY3m9OK03nZisXA|The Texas Manual on Rainwater Harvesting] 
*This is the website for the Biobolsa System that we installed. 
**http://sistemabiobolsa.com/ 
*This is a website explaining how to build one of the many WindBelts invented by Shawn Frayne. 
**http://www.humdingerwind.com/pdf/WB-BI.pdf
*This link provides a pdf document in both Spanish and English on carbon credits and renewable energies in Mexico (such as wind, solar, micro-hydro and bio-power).
**http://www.sener.gob.mx/webSener/res/PE_y_DT/fe/e_renovables_mexico.pdf
*This link provides a website with an overview on improved cook stoves. 
**http://www.hedon.info/Improvedcookstove

== Vocabulary  ==

These are words specifically related to Appropriate Technology that the students of the HSU Chiapas program found useful. See the [[Renewable Energy Dictionary]] for words directly related to renewable energy. 

{| class="wikitable sortable"
|-
! English 
! Spanish
|-
| Chicken wire 
| Malla
|-
| Lime powder 
| Cal
|-
| Blowtorch 
| Soplete
|-
| Dowel 
| Taquete
|-
| Barbed wire 
| Alambre de púas
|-
| Head 
| Caída
|-
| Tests 
| Pruebas
|-
| Turbine 
| Turbina
|-
| Sack 
| Costal (not costale!)
|-
| Sulfur 
| Azufre
|-
| Screw 
| Tornillo
|-
| Drill 
| Taladro
|-
| Cooperative<br> 
| El ejido<br>
|-
| Stream<br> 
| El arroyo<br>
|-
| Gully, ravine<br> 
| La quebrada<br>
|-
| Micro-hydro<br> 
| Mini-hidráulica<br>
|-
| Permit 
| El tramite
|-
|Saw Dust<br>
|Aserín<br>
|-
| Brick<br>
| Ladrillo<br>
|-
| Sift<br>
| Colar/Cerner<br>
|-
| rebar
| barilla
|-
| aligator clips<br>
| gancho aligator<br>
|-
| a finishing coat<br>
| repello<br>

|}

=== Instructions  ===

To add your word, click edit and: Copy the following code (not including the pre and /pre) and paste it just before the |} in the table above. 
<pre>|-
| English word
| Palabra en Español
</pre> 
[[Category:HSU_Chiapas_Program_2010]]