===General Works Cited===
*Anderson, C. (2004).  Tap into Water Savings, Enjoy lower water bills; lusher landscapes and longer-lived septic systems when you irrigate with your household graywater.  Mother Earth News.  No. 205, pgs 100-106.  August/September 2004.
*Engel, J.P. (2004).  Selecting Trees and Shrubs for Alkaline Conditions.  White Oak Nursery.  www.whiteoaknursery.biz.  Copyright 2004.
*Noah, M.  (2002).  Graywater Use Still a Gray Area.  Guest Commentary.  Journal of Environmental Health.  Vol. 64, No. 10, pgs 22-25.  June 2002.
===HSU CCAT Grey Water Binders===
*Brown, E., J. Freas, and T. Oxford (2002).  CCAT Greywater Marsh Water Quality Project.  Engineering 305, 2002.
*Beth, Drew, Nikki, and Stephanie (1997).  Grey Water System Analysis of CCAT.  Engineering 305, fall semester 1997.
*California (1991).  Graywater Systems for Single Family Residential Occupancies (Draft).  State of California AD-HOC Committee on Graywater.  December 1991.
*Camras, D. (1993).  Domestic Greywater Reuse:  Presentation Summary.  Wastewater Reuse Systems NR 515, Humboldt State University.  April 27, 1993.
*Cecil, K. and E. Mattson (2003).  Water Quality Analysis of the CCAT Grey Water Marsh.  May 7, 2003.
*Class, D., S. Lim, C. Roberts, and B. Wefso (1993).  CCAT Grey Water Treatment System Group Monitoring Project.  Engineering 356: Water Quality Analysis.  May 14, 1993.
*Conley, L.M., R.I. Dick, and L.W. Lion (1991).  An Assessment of the Root Zone Method of Wastewater Treatment.  May-June 1991.
*DWR (1995).  Graywater Guide Book.  State of California, Department of Water Resources.  January 1995.  http://www.owue.water.ca.gov/docs/graywater_guide_book.pdf.  Site visited 3/27/09.
*Enferadi, K.M. et al. (1986).  Field Investigation of Biological Toilet Systems and Grey Water Treatment.  September 1986.
*EPA (1988).  Design Manual: Constructed Wetlands and Aquatic Plant Systems for Municipal Wastewater Treatment.  United States Environmental Protection Agency.  Chapters 2 and 3.  September 1988.
*Everett, J. and C. Bysshe (1993-1994).  CCAT Wetland Project: A Research Project.  1993-1994.
*Hagberg, T. (1991).  The Status of CCAT's Greywater Marsh.  Limnology Research Project.  May 10, 1991.
*Ho, G., R. Mars, K. Mathew, and R. Taplin (2003).  Greywater Treatment with the Submergent Triglochin huegelii - A Comparison Between Surface and Subsurface Systems.  (c) Elsevier Science B.V. Ecological Engineering 20 (2003) 147-156.
*Ingham, A.T. (1980).  Residential Greywater Management in California.  State of California, Sacramento, California.  January 1980.
*James, B.B. (1988).  Wastewater Disposal in a Forest Evapotranspiration System.  January 14, 1988.
*Kozil, J.D., J.S. Svehla, and J.H Wetzel (2003).  Water Quality Evaluation of CCAT's Grey Water System.  May 7, 2003.
*Landry, C. (1995).  Design and Construction of a Rock Marsh Greywater Treatment System for the HSU CCAT.  Senior project Department of Environmental Resource Engineering Humboldt State University.  March 1995.
*Leppig, G. (1993).  Protozoa Concentrations and Diversity in a Residential Greywater Treatment Marsh.  Department of Biological Sciences, Humboldt State University.  May 17, 1993.
*Leveille, K. (1995).  Design of an Appropriate Greywater System for the HSU CCAT.  Senior project to Department of Environmental Resource Engineering Humboldt State University.  November 1995.
*Los Angeles (1991).  Plumbing Code Manual No. 1400.  Building and Safety Division.  Department of Public Works.  County of Los Angeles.  August 1991.
*Olkowski, H., B. Olkowski, and T. Javits (unknown).  Integral Urban House.  Favallones Institute, pgs 97-100.
*Reed, S.C. and D. Brown (1996).  Constructed Wetland Design - the 2nd Generation.  WPCF.  1996.
*Reed, S.C., E.J. Middlebrooks, and R.W. Crites (1988).  Natural Systems for Waste Management and Treatment.  Chapter 6.  1988.
*Rose, J.B., S. Gwo-Shing, C.P. Gerba, and N.A. Sinclair (1991).  Microbial Quality and Persistence of Enteric Pathogens in Graywater from Various Household Sources.  Water Resources.  25 (1), 37-42.
*San Bernardino (1991).  Clear Answers to Using Greywater, Part One.  County of San Bernardino.  October 1991.
*Santa Barbara (1990).  How to Save Water and Landscaping Safely.  Guidelines: Greywater Use in Santa Barbara.  April 1990.
*Santa Barbara (1991).  How to Use Gray Water - Guidelines for Santa Barbara County.  Santa Barbara County.  May 1991.
*Slattery, C. (1990).  Questions About Gray Water.  Sunset Magazine, pgs 172-175.  July 1990.
*Steiner, G.R., J.T. Watson, and K.D. Choate (1991).  Constructed Wetlands Wastewater Treatment Systems for Small Users Including Individual Residences.  General Design, Construction, and Operation Guidelines.  Chattanooga, Tennesse.  March 1991.

<noinclude>
[[Category:CCAT greywater]]
</noinclude>